The Project Gutenberg eBook of The Book Of Mormon

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: The Book Of Mormon
An Account Written By The Hand Of Mormon Upon Plates Taken From The Plates Of Nephi

Author: various

Translator: Joseph Smith, Jr.

Release Date: March 8, 1992 [eBook #17]
[Most recently updated: February 27, 2021]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

Produced by: David Widger

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE BOOK OF MORMON ***




THE BOOK OF MORMON

An Account Written
 BY THE HAND OF MORMON

UPON PLATES TAKEN FROM THE PLATES OF NEPHI


Wherefore, it is an abridgment of the record of the people of Nephi,
and also of the Lamanites—Written to the Lamanites, who are a remnant
of the house of Israel; and also to Jew and Gentile—Written by way of
commandment, and also by the spirit of prophecy and of
revelation—Written and sealed up, and hid up unto the Lord, that they
might not be destroyed—To come forth by the gift and power of God unto
the interpretation thereof—Sealed by the hand of Moroni, and hid up
unto the Lord, to come forth in due time by way of the Gentile—The
interpretation thereof by the gift of God.

An abridgment taken from the Book of Ether also, which is a record of
the people of Jared, who were scattered at the time the Lord confounded
the language of the people, when they were building a tower to get to
heaven—Which is to show unto the remnant of the House of Israel what
great things the Lord hath done for their fathers; and that they may
know the covenants of the Lord, that they are not cast off forever—And
also to the convincing of the Jew and Gentile that JESUS is the CHRIST,
the ETERNAL GOD, manifesting himself unto all nations—And now, if there
are faults they are the mistakes of men; wherefore, condemn not the
things of God, that ye may be found spotless at the judgment-seat of
Christ.


 TRANSLATED BY JOSEPH SMITH, JUN.
 THE TESTIMONY OF THREE WITNESSES

Be it known unto all nations, kindreds, tongues, and people, unto whom
this work shall come: That we, through the grace of God the Father, and
our Lord Jesus Christ, have seen the plates which contain this record,
which is a record of the people of Nephi, and also of the Lamanites,
their brethren, and also of the people of Jared, who came from the
tower of which hath been spoken. And we also know that they have been
translated by the gift and power of God, for his voice hath declared it
unto us; wherefore we know of a surety that the work is true. And we
also testify that we have seen the engravings which are upon the
plates; and they have been shown unto us by the power of God, and not
of man. And we declare with words of soberness, that an angel of God
came down from heaven, and he brought and laid before our eyes, that we
beheld and saw the plates, and the engravings thereon; and we know that
it is by the grace of God the Father, and our Lord Jesus Christ, that
we beheld and bear record that these things are true. And it is
marvelous in our eyes. Nevertheless, the voice of the Lord commanded us
that we should bear record of it; wherefore, to be obedient unto the
commandments of God, we bear testimony of these things. And we know
that if we are faithful in Christ, we shall rid our garments of the
blood of all men, and be found spotless before the judgment-seat of
Christ, and shall dwell with him eternally in the heavens. And the
honor be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Ghost, which is
one God. Amen.

OLIVER COWDERY
DAVID WHITMER
MARTIN HARRIS


 THE TESTIMONY OF EIGHT WITNESSES

Be it known unto all nations, kindreds, tongues, and people, unto whom
this work shall come: That Joseph Smith, Jun., the translator of this
work, has shown unto us the plates of which hath been spoken, which
have the appearance of gold; and as many of the leaves as the said
Smith has translated we did handle with our hands; and we also saw the
engravings thereon, all of which has the appearance of ancient work,
and of curious workmanship. And this we bear record with words of
soberness, that the said Smith has shown unto us, for we have seen and
hefted, and know of a surety that the said Smith has got the plates of
which we have spoken. And we give our names unto the world, to witness
unto the world that which we have seen. And we lie not, God bearing
witness of it.

CHRISTIAN WHITMER
JACOB WHITMER
PETER WHITMER, JUN.
JOHN WHITMER
HIRAM PAGE
JOSEPH SMITH, SEN.
HYRUM SMITH
SAMUEL H. SMITH


Contents

 THE FIRST BOOK OF NEPHI HIS REIGN AND MINISTRY
 THE SECOND BOOK OF NEPHI
 THE BOOK OF JACOB
 THE BOOK OF ENOS
 THE BOOK OF JAROM
 THE BOOK OF OMNI
 THE WORDS OF MORMON
 THE BOOK OF MOSIAH
 THE BOOK OF ALMA
 THE BOOK OF HELAMAN
 THIRD BOOK OF NEPHI
 FOURTH NEPHI
 THE BOOK OF MORMON
 THE BOOK OF ETHER
 THE BOOK OF MORONI




THE FIRST BOOK OF NEPHI HIS REIGN AND MINISTRY (1 Nephi)


An account of Lehi and his wife Sariah and his four sons, being called,
(beginning at the eldest) Laman, Lemuel, Sam, and Nephi. The Lord warns
Lehi to depart out of the land of Jerusalem, because he prophesieth
unto the people concerning their iniquity and they seek to destroy his
life. He taketh three days’ journey into the wilderness with his
family. Nephi taketh his brethren and returneth to the land of
Jerusalem after the record of the Jews. The account of their
sufferings. They take the daughters of Ishmael to wife. They take their
families and depart into the wilderness. Their sufferings and
afflictions in the wilderness. The course of their travels. They come
to the large waters. Nephi’s brethren rebel against him. He confoundeth
them, and buildeth a ship. They call the name of the place Bountiful.
They cross the large waters into the promised land, and so forth. This
is according to the account of Nephi; or in other words, I, Nephi,
wrote this record.

1 Nephi Chapter 1

1:1 I, Nephi, having been born of goodly parents, therefore I was
taught somewhat in all the learning of my father; and having seen many
afflictions in the course of my days, nevertheless, having been highly
favored of the Lord in all my days; yea, having had a great knowledge
of the goodness and the mysteries of God, therefore I make a record of
my proceedings in my days.

1:2 Yea, I make a record in the language of my father, which consists
of the learning of the Jews and the language of the Egyptians.

1:3 And I know that the record which I make is true; and I make it with
mine own hand; and I make it according to my knowledge.

1:4 For it came to pass in the commencement of the first year of the
reign of Zedekiah, king of Judah, (my father, Lehi, having dwelt at
Jerusalem in all his days); and in that same year there came many
prophets, prophesying unto the people that they must repent, or the
great city Jerusalem must be destroyed.

1:5 Wherefore it came to pass that my father, Lehi, as he went forth
prayed unto the Lord, yea, even with all his heart, in behalf of his
people.

1:6 And it came to pass as he prayed unto the Lord, there came a pillar
of fire and dwelt upon a rock before him; and he saw and heard much;
and because of the things which he saw and heard he did quake and
tremble exceedingly.

1:7 And it came to pass that he returned to his own house at Jerusalem;
and he cast himself upon his bed, being overcome with the Spirit and
the things which he had seen.

1:8 And being thus overcome with the Spirit, he was carried away in a
vision, even that he saw the heavens open, and he thought he saw God
sitting upon his throne, surrounded with numberless concourses of
angels in the attitude of singing and praising their God.

1:9 And it came to pass that he saw One descending out of the midst of
heaven, and he beheld that his luster was above that of the sun at
noon-day.

1:10 And he also saw twelve others following him, and their brightness
did exceed that of the stars in the firmament.

1:11 And they came down and went forth upon the face of the earth; and
the first came and stood before my father, and gave unto him a book,
and bade him that he should read.

1:12 And it came to pass that as he read, he was filled with the Spirit
of the Lord.

1:13 And he read, saying: Wo, wo, unto Jerusalem, for I have seen thine
abominations! Yea, and many things did my father read concerning
Jerusalem—that it should be destroyed, and the inhabitants thereof;
many should perish by the sword, and many should be carried away
captive into Babylon.

1:14 And it came to pass that when my father had read and seen many
great and marvelous things, he did exclaim many things unto the Lord;
such as: Great and marvelous are thy works, O Lord God Almighty! Thy
throne is high in the heavens, and thy power, and goodness, and mercy
are over all the inhabitants of the earth, and, because thou art
merciful, thou wilt not suffer those who come unto thee that they shall
perish!

1:15 And after this manner was the language of my father in the
praising of his God; for his soul did rejoice, and his whole heart was
filled, because of the things which he had seen, yea, which the Lord
had shown unto him.

1:16 And now I, Nephi, do not make a full account of the things which
my father hath written, for he hath written many things which he saw in
visions and in dreams; and he also hath written many things which he
prophesied and spake unto his children, of which I shall not make a
full account.

1:17 But I shall make an account of my proceedings in my days. Behold,
I make an abridgment of the record of my father, upon plates which I
have made with mine own hands; wherefore, after I have abridged the
record of my father then will I make an account of mine own life.

1:18 Therefore, I would that ye should know, that after the Lord had
shown so many marvelous things unto my father, Lehi, yea, concerning
the destruction of Jerusalem, behold he went forth among the people,
and began to prophesy and to declare unto them concerning the things
which he had both seen and heard.

1:19 And it came to pass that the Jews did mock him because of the
things which he testified of them; for he truly testified of their
wickedness and their abominations; and he testified that the things
which he saw and heard, and also the things which he read in the book,
manifested plainly of the coming of the Messiah, and also the
redemption of the world.

1:20 And when the Jews heard these things they were angry with him;
yea, even as with the prophets of old, whom they had cast out, and
stoned, and slain; and they also sought his life, that they might take
it away. But behold, I, Nephi, will show unto you that the tender
mercies of the Lord are over all those whom he hath chosen, because of
their faith, to make them mighty even unto the power of deliverance.

1 Nephi Chapter 2

2:1 For behold, it came to pass that the Lord spake unto my father,
yea, even in a dream, and said unto him: Blessed art thou Lehi, because
of the things which thou hast done; and because thou hast been faithful
and declared unto this people the things which I commanded thee,
behold, they seek to take away thy life.

2:2 And it came to pass that the Lord commanded my father, even in a
dream, that he should take his family and depart into the wilderness.

2:3 And it came to pass that he was obedient unto the word of the Lord,
wherefore he did as the Lord commanded him.

2:4 And it came to pass that he departed into the wilderness. And he
left his house, and the land of his inheritance, and his gold, and his
silver, and his precious things, and took nothing with him, save it
were his family, and provisions, and tents, and departed into the
wilderness.

2:5 And he came down by the borders near the shore of the Red Sea; and
he traveled in the wilderness in the borders which are nearer the Red
Sea; and he did travel in the wilderness with his family, which
consisted of my mother, Sariah, and my elder brothers, who were Laman,
Lemuel, and Sam.

2:6 And it came to pass that when he had traveled three days in the
wilderness, he pitched his tent in a valley by the side of a river of
water.

2:7 And it came to pass that he built an altar of stones, and made an
offering unto the Lord, and gave thanks unto the Lord our God.

2:8 And it came to pass that he called the name of the river, Laman,
and it emptied into the Red Sea; and the valley was in the borders near
the mouth thereof.

2:9 And when my father saw that the waters of the river emptied into
the fountain of the Red Sea, he spake unto Laman, saying: O that thou
mightest be like unto this river, continually running into the fountain
of all righteousness!

2:10 And he also spake unto Lemuel: O that thou mightest be like unto
this valley, firm and steadfast, and immovable in keeping the
commandments of the Lord!

2:11 Now this he spake because of the stiffneckedness of Laman and
Lemuel; for behold they did murmur in many things against their father,
because he was a visionary man, and had led them out of the land of
Jerusalem, to leave the land of their inheritance, and their gold, and
their silver, and their precious things, to perish in the wilderness.
And this they said he had done because of the foolish imaginations of
his heart.

2:12 And thus Laman and Lemuel, being the eldest, did murmur against
their father. And they did murmur because they knew not the dealings of
that God who had created them. 2:13 Neither did they believe that
Jerusalem, that great city, could be destroyed according to the words
of the prophets. And they were like unto the Jews who were at
Jerusalem, who sought to take away the life of my father.

2:14 And it came to pass that my father did speak unto them in the
valley of Lemuel, with power, being filled with the Spirit, until their
frames did shake before him. And he did confound them, that they durst
not utter against him; wherefore, they did as he commanded them.

2:15 And my father dwelt in a tent.

2:16 And it came to pass that I, Nephi, being exceedingly young,
nevertheless being large in stature, and also having great desires to
know of the mysteries of God, wherefore, I did cry unto the Lord; and
behold he did visit me, and did soften my heart that I did believe all
the words which had been spoken by my father; wherefore, I did not
rebel against him like unto my brothers.

2:17 And I spake unto Sam, making known unto him the things which the
Lord had manifested unto me by his Holy Spirit. And it came to pass
that he believed in my words.

2:18 But, behold, Laman and Lemuel would not hearken unto my words; and
being grieved because of the hardness of their hearts I cried unto the
Lord for them.

2:19 And it came to pass that the Lord spake unto me, saying: Blessed
art thou, Nephi, because of thy faith, for thou hast sought me
diligently, with lowliness of heart.

2:20 And inasmuch as ye shall keep my commandments, ye shall prosper,
and shall be led to a land of promise; yea, even a land which I have
prepared for you; yea, a land which is choice above all other lands.

2:21 And inasmuch as thy brethren shall rebel against thee, they shall
be cut off from the presence of the Lord.

2:22 And inasmuch as thou shalt keep my commandments, thou shalt be
made a ruler and a teacher over thy brethren.

2:23 For behold, in that day that they shall rebel against me, I will
curse them even with a sore curse, and they shall have no power over
thy seed except they shall rebel against me also.

2:24 And if it so be that they rebel against me, they shall be a
scourge unto thy seed, to stir them up in the ways of remembrance.

1 Nephi Chapter 3

3:1 And it came to pass that I, Nephi, returned from speaking with the
Lord, to the tent of my father.

3:2 And it came to pass that he spake unto me, saying: Behold I have
dreamed a dream, in the which the Lord hath commanded me that thou and
thy brethren shall return to Jerusalem.

3:3 For behold, Laban hath the record of the Jews and also a genealogy
of my forefathers, and they are engraven upon plates of brass.

3:4 Wherefore, the Lord hath commanded me that thou and thy brothers
should go unto the house of Laban, and seek the records, and bring them
down hither into the wilderness.

3:5 And now, behold thy brothers murmur, saying it is a hard thing
which I have required of them; but behold I have not required it of
them, but it is a commandment of the Lord.

3:6 Therefore go, my son, and thou shalt be favored of the Lord,
because thou hast not murmured.

3:7 And it came to pass that I, Nephi, said unto my father: I will go
and do the things which the Lord hath commanded, for I know that the
Lord giveth no commandments unto the children of men, save he shall
prepare a way for them that they may accomplish the thing which he
commandeth them.

3:8 And it came to pass that when my father had heard these words he
was exceedingly glad, for he knew that I had been blessed of the Lord.

3:9 And I, Nephi, and my brethren took our journey in the wilderness,
with our tents, to go up to the land of Jerusalem.

3:10 And it came to pass that when we had gone up to the land of
Jerusalem, I and my brethren did consult one with another.

3:11 And we cast lots—who of us should go in unto the house of Laban.
And it came to pass that the lot fell upon Laman; and Laman went in
unto the house of Laban, and he talked with him as he sat in his house.

3:12 And he desired of Laban the records which were engraven upon the
plates of brass, which contained the genealogy of my father.

3:13 And behold, it came to pass that Laban was angry, and thrust him
out from his presence; and he would not that he should have the
records. Wherefore, he said unto him: Behold thou art a robber, and I
will slay thee.

3:14 But Laman fled out of his presence, and told the things which
Laban had done, unto us. And we began to be exceedingly sorrowful, and
my brethren were about to return unto my father in the wilderness.

3:15 But behold I said unto them that: As the Lord liveth, and as we
live, we will not go down unto our father in the wilderness until we
have accomplished the thing which the Lord hath commanded us.

3:16 Wherefore, let us be faithful in keeping the commandments of the
Lord; therefore let us go down to the land of our father’s inheritance,
for behold he left gold and silver, and all manner of riches. And all
this he hath done because of the commandments of the Lord.

3:17 For he knew that Jerusalem must be destroyed, because of the
wickedness of the people.

3:18 For behold, they have rejected the words of the prophets.
Wherefore, if my father should dwell in the land after he hath been
commanded to flee out of the land, behold, he would also perish.
Wherefore, it must needs be that he flee out of the land.

3:19 And behold, it is wisdom in God that we should obtain these
records, that we may preserve unto our children the language of our
fathers;

3:20 And also that we may preserve unto them the words which have been
spoken by the mouth of all the holy prophets, which have been delivered
unto them by the Spirit and power of God, since the world began, even
down unto this present time.

3:21 And it came to pass that after this manner of language did I
persuade my brethren, that they might be faithful in keeping the
commandments of God.

3:22 And it came to pass that we went down to the land of our
inheritance, and we did gather together our gold, and our silver, and
our precious things.

3:23 And after we had gathered these things together, we went up again
unto the house of Laban.

3:24 And it came to pass that we went in unto Laban, and desired him
that he would give unto us the records which were engraven upon the
plates of brass, for which we would give unto him our gold, and our
silver, and all our precious things.

3:25 And it came to pass that when Laban saw our property, and that it
was exceedingly great, he did lust after it, insomuch that he thrust us
out, and sent his servants to slay us, that he might obtain our
property.

3:26 And it came to pass that we did flee before the servants of Laban,
and we were obliged to leave behind our property, and it fell into the
hands of Laban.

3:27 And it came to pass that we fled into the wilderness, and the
servants of Laban did not overtake us, and we hid ourselves in the
cavity of a rock.

3:28 And it came to pass that Laman was angry with me, and also with my
father; and also was Lemuel, for he hearkened unto the words of Laman.
Wherefore Laman and Lemuel did speak many hard words unto us, their
younger brothers, and they did smite us even with a rod.

3:29 And it came to pass as they smote us with a rod, behold, an angel
of the Lord came and stood before them, and he spake unto them, saying:
Why do ye smite your younger brother with a rod? Know ye not that the
Lord hath chosen him to be a ruler over you, and this because of your
iniquities? Behold ye shall go up to Jerusalem again, and the Lord will
deliver Laban into your hands.

3:30 And after the angel had spoken unto us, he departed.

3:31 And after the angel had departed, Laman and Lemuel again began to
murmur, saying: How is it possible that the Lord will deliver Laban
into our hands? Behold, he is a mighty man, and he can command fifty,
yea, even he can slay fifty; then why not us?

1 Nephi Chapter 4

4:1 And it came to pass that I spake unto my brethren, saying: Let us
go up again unto Jerusalem, and let us be faithful in keeping the
commandments of the Lord; for behold he is mightier than all the earth,
then why not mightier than Laban and his fifty, yea, or even than his
tens of thousands?

4:2 Therefore let us go up; let us be strong like unto Moses; for he
truly spake unto the waters of the Red Sea and they divided hither and
thither, and our fathers came through, out of captivity, on dry ground,
and the armies of Pharaoh did follow and were drowned in the waters of
the Red Sea.

4:3 Now behold ye know that this is true; and ye also know that an
angel hath spoken unto you; wherefore can ye doubt? Let us go up; the
Lord is able to deliver us, even as our fathers, and to destroy Laban,
even as the Egyptians.

4:4 Now when I had spoken these words, they were yet wroth, and did
still continue to murmur; nevertheless they did follow me up until we
came without the walls of Jerusalem.

4:5 And it was by night; and I caused that they should hide themselves
without the walls. And after they had hid themselves, I, Nephi, crept
into the city and went forth towards the house of Laban.

4:6 And I was led by the Spirit, not knowing beforehand the things
which I should do.

4:7 Nevertheless I went forth, and as I came near unto the house of
Laban I beheld a man, and he had fallen to the earth before me, for he
was drunken with wine.

4:8 And when I came to him I found that it was Laban.

4:9 And I beheld his sword, and I drew it forth from the sheath
thereof; and the hilt thereof was of pure gold, and the workmanship
thereof was exceedingly fine, and I saw that the blade thereof was of
the most precious steel.

4:10 And it came to pass that I was constrained by the Spirit that I
should kill Laban; but I said in my heart: Never at any time have I
shed the blood of man. And I shrunk and would that I might not slay
him.

4:11 And the Spirit said unto me again: Behold the Lord hath delivered
him into thy hands. Yea, and I also knew that he had sought to take
away mine own life; yea, and he would not hearken unto the commandments
of the Lord; and he also had taken away our property.

4:12 And it came to pass that the Spirit said unto me again: Slay him,
for the Lord hath delivered him into thy hands;

4:13 Behold the Lord slayeth the wicked to bring forth his righteous
purposes. It is better that one man should perish than that a nation
should dwindle and perish in unbelief.

4:14 And now, when I, Nephi, had heard these words, I remembered the
words of the Lord which he spake unto me in the wilderness, saying
that: Inasmuch as thy seed shall keep my commandments, they shall
prosper in the land of promise.

4:15 Yea, and I also thought that they could not keep the commandments
of the Lord according to the law of Moses, save they should have the
law.

4:16 And I also knew that the law was engraven upon the plates of
brass.

4:17 And again, I knew that the Lord had delivered Laban into my hands
for this cause—that I might obtain the records according to his
commandments.

4:18 Therefore I did obey the voice of the Spirit, and took Laban by
the hair of the head, and I smote off his head with his own sword.

4:19 And after I had smitten off his head with his own sword, I took
the garments of Laban and put them upon mine own body; yea, even every
whit; and I did gird on his armor about my loins.

4:20 And after I had done this, I went forth unto the treasury of
Laban. And as I went forth towards the treasury of Laban, behold, I saw
the servant of Laban who had the keys of the treasury. And I commanded
him in the voice of Laban, that he should go with me into the treasury.

4:21 And he supposed me to be his master, Laban, for he beheld the
garments and also the sword girded about my loins.

4:22 And he spake unto me concerning the elders of the Jews, he knowing
that his master, Laban, had been out by night among them.

4:23 And I spake unto him as if it had been Laban.

4:24 And I also spake unto him that I should carry the engravings,
which were upon the plates of brass, to my elder brethren, who were
without the walls.

4:25 And I also bade him that he should follow me.

4:26 And he, supposing that I spake of the brethren of the church, and
that I was truly that Laban whom I had slain, wherefore he did follow
me.

4:27 And he spake unto me many times concerning the elders of the Jews,
as I went forth unto my brethren, who were without the walls.

4:28 And it came to pass that when Laman saw me he was exceedingly
frightened, and also Lemuel and Sam. And they fled from before my
presence; for they supposed it was Laban, and that he had slain me and
had sought to take away their lives also.

4:29 And it came to pass that I called after them, and they did hear
me; wherefore they did cease to flee from my presence.

4:30 And it came to pass that when the servant of Laban beheld my
brethren he began to tremble, and was about to flee from before me and
return to the city of Jerusalem.

4:31 And now I, Nephi, being a man large in stature, and also having
received much strength of the Lord, therefore I did seize upon the
servant of Laban, and held him, that he should not flee.

4:32 And it came to pass that I spake with him, that if he would
hearken unto my words, as the Lord liveth, and as I live, even so that
if he would hearken unto our words, we would spare his life.

4:33 And I spake unto him, even with an oath, that he need not fear;
that he should be a free man like unto us if he would go down in the
wilderness with us.

4:34 And I also spake unto him, saying: Surely the Lord hath commanded
us to do this thing; and shall we not be diligent in keeping the
commandments of the Lord? Therefore, if thou wilt go down into the
wilderness to my father thou shalt have place with us.

4:35 And it came to pass that Zoram did take courage at the words which
I spake. Now Zoram was the name of the servant; and he promised that he
would go down into the wilderness unto our father. Yea, and he also
made an oath unto us that he would tarry with us from that time forth.

4:36 Now we were desirous that he should tarry with us for this cause,
that the Jews might not know concerning our flight into the wilderness,
lest they should pursue us and destroy us.

4:37 And it came to pass that when Zoram had made an oath unto us, our
fears did cease concerning him.

4:38 And it came to pass that we took the plates of brass and the
servant of Laban, and departed into the wilderness, and journeyed unto
the tent of our father.

1 Nephi Chapter 5

5:1 And it came to pass that after we had come down into the wilderness
unto our father, behold, he was filled with joy, and also my mother,
Sariah, was exceedingly glad, for she truly had mourned because of us.

5:2 For she had supposed that we had perished in the wilderness; and
she also had complained against my father, telling him that he was a
visionary man; saying: Behold thou hast led us forth from the land of
our inheritance, and my sons are no more, and we perish in the
wilderness.

5:3 And after this manner of language had my mother complained against
my father.

5:4 And it had come to pass that my father spake unto her, saying: I
know that I am a visionary man; for if I had not seen the things of God
in a vision I should not have known the goodness of God, but had
tarried at Jerusalem, and had perished with my brethren.

5:5 But behold, I have obtained a land of promise, in the which things
I do rejoice; yea, and I know that the Lord will deliver my sons out of
the hands of Laban, and bring them down again unto us in the
wilderness.

5:6 And after this manner of language did my father, Lehi, comfort my
mother, Sariah, concerning us, while we journeyed in the wilderness up
to the land of Jerusalem, to obtain the record of the Jews.

5:7 And when we had returned to the tent of my father, behold their joy
was full, and my mother was comforted.

5:8 And she spake, saying: Now I know of a surety that the Lord hath
commanded my husband to flee into the wilderness; yea, and I also know
of a surety that the Lord hath protected my sons, and delivered them
out of the hands of Laban, and given them power whereby they could
accomplish the thing which the Lord hath commanded them. And after this
manner of language did she speak.

5:9 And it came to pass that they did rejoice exceedingly, and did
offer sacrifice and burnt offerings unto the Lord; and they gave thanks
unto the God of Israel.

5:10 And after they had given thanks unto the God of Israel, my father,
Lehi, took the records which were engraven upon the plates of brass,
and he did search them from the beginning.

5:11 And he beheld that they did contain the five books of Moses, which
gave an account of the creation of the world, and also of Adam and Eve,
who were our first parents;

5:12 And also a record of the Jews from the beginning, even down to the
commencement of the reign of Zedekiah, king of Judah;

5:13 And also the prophecies of the holy prophets, from the beginning,
even down to the commencement of the reign of Zedekiah; and also many
prophecies which have been spoken by the mouth of Jeremiah.

5:14 And it came to pass that my father, Lehi, also found upon the
plates of brass a genealogy of his fathers; wherefore he knew that he
was a descendant of Joseph; yea, even that Joseph who was the son of
Jacob, who was sold into Egypt, and who was preserved by the hand of
the Lord, that he might preserve his father, Jacob, and all his
household from perishing with famine.

5:15 And they were also led out of captivity and out of the land of
Egypt, by that same God who had preserved them.

5:16 And thus my father, Lehi, did discover the genealogy of his
fathers. And Laban also was a descendant of Joseph, wherefore he and
his fathers had kept the records.

5:17 And now when my father saw all these things, he was filled with
the Spirit, and began to prophesy concerning his seed—

5:18 That these plates of brass should go forth unto all nations,
kindreds, tongues, and people who were of his seed.

5:19 Wherefore, he said that these plates of brass should never perish;
neither should they be dimmed any more by time. And he prophesied many
things concerning his seed.

5:20 And it came to pass that thus far I and my father had kept the
commandments wherewith the Lord had commanded us.

5:21 And we had obtained the records which the Lord had commanded us,
and searched them and found that they were desirable; yea, even of
great worth unto us, insomuch that we could preserve the commandments
of the Lord unto our children.

5:22 Wherefore, it was wisdom in the Lord that we should carry them
with us, as we journeyed in the wilderness towards the land of promise.

1 Nephi Chapter 6

6:1 And now I, Nephi, do not give the genealogy of my fathers in this
part of my record; neither at any time shall I give it after upon these
plates which I am writing; for it is given in the record which has been
kept by my father; wherefore, I do not write it in this work.

6:2 For it sufficeth me to say that we are descendants of Joseph.

6:3 And it mattereth not to me that I am particular to give a full
account of all the things of my father, for they cannot be written upon
these plates, for I desire the room that I may write of the things of
God.

6:4 For the fulness of mine intent is that I may persuade men to come
unto the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob,
and be saved.

6:5 Wherefore, the things which are pleasing unto the world I do not
write, but the things which are pleasing unto God and unto those who
are not of the world.

6:6 Wherefore, I shall give commandment unto my seed, that they shall
not occupy these plates with things which are not of worth unto the
children of men.

1 Nephi Chapter 7

7:1 And now I would that ye might know, that after my father, Lehi, had
made an end of prophesying concerning his seed, it came to pass that
the Lord spake unto him again, saying that it was not meet for him,
Lehi, that he should take his family into the wilderness alone; but
that his sons should take daughters to wife, that they might raise up
seed unto the Lord in the land of promise.

7:2 And it came to pass that the Lord commanded him that I, Nephi, and
my brethren, should again return unto the land of Jerusalem, and bring
down Ishmael and his family into the wilderness.

7:3 And it came to pass that I, Nephi, did again, with my brethren, go
forth into the wilderness to go up to Jerusalem.

7:4 And it came to pass that we went up unto the house of Ishmael, and
we did gain favor in the sight of Ishmael, insomuch that we did speak
unto him the words of the Lord.

7:5 And it came to pass that the Lord did soften the heart of Ishmael,
and also his household, insomuch that they took their journey with us
down into the wilderness to the tent of our father.

7:6 And it came to pass that as we journeyed in the wilderness, behold
Laman and Lemuel, and two of the daughters of Ishmael, and the two sons
of Ishmael and their families, did rebel against us; yea, against me,
Nephi, and Sam, and their father, Ishmael, and his wife, and his three
other daughters.

7:7 And it came to pass in the which rebellion, they were desirous to
return unto the land of Jerusalem.

7:8 And now I, Nephi, being grieved for the hardness of their hearts,
therefore I spake unto them, saying, yea, even unto Laman and unto
Lemuel: Behold ye are mine elder brethren, and how is it that ye are so
hard in your hearts, and so blind in your minds, that ye have need that
I, your younger brother, should speak unto you, yea, and set an example
for you?

7:9 How is it that ye have not hearkened unto the word of the Lord?

7:10 How is it that ye have forgotten that ye have seen an angel of the
Lord?

7:11 Yea, and how is it that ye have forgotten what great things the
Lord hath done for us, in delivering us out of the hands of Laban, and
also that we should obtain the record?

7:12 Yea, and how is it that ye have forgotten that the Lord is able to
do all things according to his will, for the children of men, if it so
be that they exercise faith in him? Wherefore, let us be faithful to
him.

7:13 And if it so be that we are faithful to him, we shall obtain the
land of promise; and ye shall know at some future period that the word
of the Lord shall be fulfilled concerning the destruction of Jerusalem;
for all things which the Lord hath spoken concerning the destruction of
Jerusalem must be fulfilled.

7:14 For behold, the Spirit of the Lord ceaseth soon to strive with
them; for behold, they have rejected the prophets, and Jeremiah have
they cast into prison. And they have sought to take away the life of my
father, insomuch that they have driven him out of the land.

7:15 Now behold, I say unto you that if ye will return unto Jerusalem
ye shall also perish with them. And now, if ye have choice, go up to
the land, and remember the words which I speak unto you, that if ye go
ye will also perish; for thus the Spirit of the Lord constraineth me
that I should speak.

7:16 And it came to pass that when I, Nephi, had spoken these words
unto my brethren, they were angry with me. And it came to pass that
they did lay their hands upon me, for behold, they were exceedingly
wroth, and they did bind me with cords, for they sought to take away my
life, that they might leave me in the wilderness to be devoured by wild
beasts.

7:17 But it came to pass that I prayed unto the Lord, saying: O Lord,
according to my faith which is in thee, wilt thou deliver me from the
hands of my brethren; yea, even give me strength that I may burst these
bands with which I am bound.

7:18 And it came to pass that when I had said these words, behold, the
bands were loosed from off my hands and feet, and I stood before my
brethren, and I spake unto them again.

7:19 And it came to pass that they were angry with me again, and sought
to lay hands upon me; but behold, one of the daughters of Ishmael, yea,
and also her mother, and one of the sons of Ishmael, did plead with my
brethren, insomuch that they did soften their hearts; and they did
cease striving to take away my life.

7:20 And it came to pass that they were sorrowful, because of their
wickedness, insomuch that they did bow down before me, and did plead
with me that I would forgive them of the thing that they had done
against me.

7:21 And it came to pass that I did frankly forgive them all that they
had done, and I did exhort them that they would pray unto the Lord
their God for forgiveness. And it came to pass that they did so. And
after they had done praying unto the Lord we did again travel on our
journey towards the tent of our father.

7:22 And it came to pass that we did come down unto the tent of our
father. And after I and my brethren and all the house of Ishmael had
come down unto the tent of my father, they did give thanks unto the
Lord their God; and they did offer sacrifice and burnt offerings unto
him.

1 Nephi Chapter 8

8:1 And it came to pass that we had gathered together all manner of
seeds of every kind, both of grain of every kind, and also of the seeds
of fruit of every kind.

8:2 And it came to pass that while my father tarried in the wilderness
he spake unto us, saying: Behold, I have dreamed a dream; or, in other
words, I have seen a vision.

8:3 And behold, because of the thing which I have seen, I have reason
to rejoice in the Lord because of Nephi and also of Sam; for I have
reason to suppose that they, and also many of their seed, will be
saved.

8:4 But behold, Laman and Lemuel, I fear exceedingly because of you;
for behold, methought I saw in my dream, a dark and dreary wilderness.

8:5 And it came to pass that I saw a man, and he was dressed in a white
robe; and he came and stood before me.

8:6 And it came to pass that he spake unto me, and bade me follow him.

8:7 And it came to pass that as I followed him I beheld myself that I
was in a dark and dreary waste.

8:8 And after I had traveled for the space of many hours in darkness, I
began to pray unto the Lord that he would have mercy on me, according
to the multitude of his tender mercies.

8:9 And it came to pass after I had prayed unto the Lord I beheld a
large and spacious field.

8:10 And it came to pass that I beheld a tree, whose fruit was
desirable to make one happy.

8:11 And it came to pass that I did go forth and partake of the fruit
thereof; and I beheld that it was most sweet, above all that I ever
before tasted. Yea, and I beheld that the fruit thereof was white, to
exceed all the whiteness that I had ever seen.

8:12 And as I partook of the fruit thereof it filled my soul with
exceedingly great joy; wherefore, I began to be desirous that my family
should partake of it also; for I knew that it was desirable above all
other fruit.

8:13 And as I cast my eyes round about, that perhaps I might discover
my family also, I beheld a river of water; and it ran along, and it was
near the tree of which I was partaking the fruit.

8:14 And I looked to behold from whence it came; and I saw the head
thereof a little way off; and at the head thereof I beheld your mother
Sariah, and Sam, and Nephi; and they stood as if they knew not whither
they should go.

8:15 And it came to pass that I beckoned unto them; and I also did say
unto them with a loud voice that they should come unto me, and partake
of the fruit, which was desirable above all other fruit.

8:16 And it came to pass that they did come unto me and partake of the
fruit also.

8:17 And it came to pass that I was desirous that Laman and Lemuel
should come and partake of the fruit also; wherefore, I cast mine eyes
towards the head of the river, that perhaps I might see them.

8:18 And it came to pass that I saw them, but they would not come unto
me and partake of the fruit.

8:19 And I beheld a rod of iron, and it extended along the bank of the
river, and led to the tree by which I stood.

8:20 And I also beheld a strait and narrow path, which came along by
the rod of iron, even to the tree by which I stood; and it also led by
the head of the fountain, unto a large and spacious field, as if it had
been a world.

8:21 And I saw numberless concourses of people, many of whom were
pressing forward, that they might obtain the path which led unto the
tree by which I stood.

8:22 And it came to pass that they did come forth, and commence in the
path which led to the tree.

8:23 And it came to pass that there arose a mist of darkness; yea, even
an exceedingly great mist of darkness, insomuch that they who had
commenced in the path did lose their way, that they wandered off and
were lost.

8:24 And it came to pass that I beheld others pressing forward, and
they came forth and caught hold of the end of the rod of iron; and they
did press forward through the mist of darkness, clinging to the rod of
iron, even until they did come forth and partake of the fruit of the
tree.

8:25 And after they had partaken of the fruit of the tree they did cast
their eyes about as if they were ashamed.

8:26 And I also cast my eyes round about, and beheld, on the other side
of the river of water, a great and spacious building; and it stood as
it were in the air, high above the earth.

8:27 And it was filled with people, both old and young, both male and
female; and their manner of dress was exceedingly fine; and they were
in the attitude of mocking and pointing their fingers towards those who
had come at and were partaking of the fruit.

8:28 And after they had tasted of the fruit they were ashamed, because
of those that were scoffing at them; and they fell away into forbidden
paths and were lost.

8:29 And now I, Nephi, do not speak all the words of my father.

8:30 But, to be short in writing, behold, he saw other multitudes
pressing forward; and they came and caught hold of the end of the rod
of iron; and they did press their way forward, continually holding fast
to the rod of iron, until they came forth and fell down and partook of
the fruit of the tree.

8:31 And he also saw other multitudes feeling their way towards that
great and spacious building.

8:32 And it came to pass that many were drowned in the depths of the
fountain; and many were lost from his view, wandering in strange roads.

8:33 And great was the multitude that did enter into that strange
building. And after they did enter into that building they did point
the finger of scorn at me and those that were partaking of the fruit
also; but we heeded them not.

8:34 These are the words of my father: For as many as heeded them, had
fallen away.

8:35 And Laman and Lemuel partook not of the fruit, said my father.

8:36 And it came to pass after my father had spoken all the words of
his dream or vision, which were many, he said unto us, because of these
things which he saw in a vision, he exceedingly feared for Laman and
Lemuel; yea, he feared lest they should be cast off from the presence
of the Lord.

8:37 And he did exhort them then with all the feeling of a tender
parent, that they would hearken to his words, that perhaps the Lord
would be merciful to them, and not cast them off; yea, my father did
preach unto them.

8:38 And after he had preached unto them, and also prophesied unto them
of many things, he bade them to keep the commandments of the Lord; and
he did cease speaking unto them.

1 Nephi Chapter 9

9:1 And all these things did my father see, and hear, and speak, as he
dwelt in a tent, in the valley of Lemuel, and also a great many more
things, which cannot be written upon these plates.

9:2 And now, as I have spoken concerning these plates, behold they are
not the plates upon which I make a full account of the history of my
people; for the plates upon which I make a full account of my people I
have given the name of Nephi; wherefore, they are called the plates of
Nephi, after mine own name; and these plates also are called the plates
of Nephi.

9:3 Nevertheless, I have received a commandment of the Lord that I
should make these plates, for the special purpose that there should be
an account engraven of the ministry of my people.

9:4 Upon the other plates should be engraven an account of the reign of
the kings, and the wars and contentions of my people; wherefore these
plates are for the more part of the ministry; and the other plates are
for the more part of the reign of the kings and the wars and
contentions of my people.

9:5 Wherefore, the Lord hath commanded me to make these plates for a
wise purpose in him, which purpose I know not.

9:6 But the Lord knoweth all things from the beginning; wherefore, he
prepareth a way to accomplish all his works among the children of men;
for behold, he hath all power unto the fulfilling of all his words. And
thus it is. Amen.

1 Nephi Chapter 10

10:1 And now I, Nephi, proceed to give an account upon these plates of
my proceedings, and my reign and ministry; wherefore, to proceed with
mine account, I must speak somewhat of the things of my father, and
also of my brethren.

10:2 For behold, it came to pass after my father had made an end of
speaking the words of his dream, and also of exhorting them to all
diligence, he spake unto them concerning the Jews—

10:3 That after they should be destroyed, even that great city
Jerusalem, and many be carried away captive into Babylon, according to
the own due time of the Lord, they should return again, yea, even be
brought back out of captivity; and after they should be brought back
out of captivity they should possess again the land of their
inheritance.

10:4 Yea, even six hundred years from the time that my father left
Jerusalem, a prophet would the Lord God raise up among the Jews—even a
Messiah, or, in other words, a Savior of the world.

10:5 And he also spake concerning the prophets, how great a number had
testified of these things, concerning this Messiah, of whom he had
spoken, or this Redeemer of the world.

10:6 Wherefore, all mankind were in a lost and in a fallen state, and
ever would be save they should rely on this Redeemer.

10:7 And he spake also concerning a prophet who should come before the
Messiah, to prepare the way of the Lord—

10:8 Yea, even he should go forth and cry in the wilderness: Prepare ye
the way of the Lord, and make his paths straight; for there standeth
one among you whom ye know not; and he is mightier than I, whose shoe’s
latchet I am not worthy to unloose. And much spake my father concerning
this thing.

10:9 And my father said he should baptize in Bethabara, beyond Jordan;
and he also said he should baptize with water; even that he should
baptize the Messiah with water.

10:10 And after he had baptized the Messiah with water, he should
behold and bear record that he had baptized the Lamb of God, who should
take away the sins of the world.

10:11 And it came to pass after my father had spoken these words he
spake unto my brethren concerning the gospel which should be preached
among the Jews, and also concerning the dwindling of the Jews in
unbelief. And after they had slain the Messiah, who should come, and
after he had been slain he should rise from the dead, and should make
himself manifest, by the Holy Ghost, unto the Gentiles.

10:12 Yea, even my father spake much concerning the Gentiles, and also
concerning the house of Israel, that they should be compared like unto
an olive-tree, whose branches should be broken off and should be
scattered upon all the face of the earth.

10:13 Wherefore, he said it must needs be that we should be led with
one accord into the land of promise, unto the fulfilling of the word of
the Lord, that we should be scattered upon all the face of the earth.

10:14 And after the house of Israel should be scattered they should be
gathered together again; or, in fine, after the Gentiles had received
the fulness of the Gospel, the natural branches of the olive-tree, or
the remnants of the house of Israel, should be grafted in, or come to
the knowledge of the true Messiah, their Lord and their Redeemer.

10:15 And after this manner of language did my father prophesy and
speak unto my brethren, and also many more things which I do not write
in this book; for I have written as many of them as were expedient for
me in mine other book.

10:16 And all these things, of which I have spoken, were done as my
father dwelt in a tent, in the valley of Lemuel.

10:17 And it came to pass after I, Nephi, having heard all the words of
my father, concerning the things which he saw in a vision, and also the
things which he spake by the power of the Holy Ghost, which power he
received by faith on the Son of God—and the Son of God was the Messiah
who should come—I, Nephi, was desirous also that I might see, and hear,
and know of these things, by the power of the Holy Ghost, which is the
gift of God unto all those who diligently seek him, as well in times of
old as in the time that he should manifest himself unto the children of
men.

10:18 For he is the same yesterday, to-day, and forever; and the way is
prepared for all men from the foundation of the world, if it so be that
they repent and come unto him.

10:19 For he that diligently seeketh shall find; and the mysteries of
God shall be unfolded unto them, by the power of the Holy Ghost, as
well in these times as in times of old, and as well in times of old as
in times to come; wherefore, the course of the Lord is one eternal
round.

10:20 Therefore remember, O man, for all thy doings thou shalt be
brought into judgment.

10:21 Wherefore, if ye have sought to do wickedly in the days of your
probation, then ye are found unclean before the judgment-seat of God;
and no unclean thing can dwell with God; wherefore, ye must be cast off
forever.

10:22 And the Holy Ghost giveth authority that I should speak these
things, and deny them not.

1 Nephi Chapter 11

11:1 For it came to pass after I had desired to know the things that my
father had seen, and believing that the Lord was able to make them
known unto me, as I sat pondering in mine heart I was caught away in
the Spirit of the Lord, yea, into an exceedingly high mountain, which I
never had before seen, and upon which I never had before set my foot.

11:2 And the Spirit said unto me: Behold, what desirest thou?

11:3 And I said: I desire to behold the things which my father saw.

11:4 And the Spirit said unto me: Believest thou that thy father saw
the tree of which he hath spoken?

11:5 And I said: Yea, thou knowest that I believe all the words of my
father.

11:6 And when I had spoken these words, the Spirit cried with a loud
voice, saying: Hosanna to the Lord, the most high God; for he is God
over all the earth, yea, even above all. And blessed art thou, Nephi,
because thou believest in the Son of the most high God; wherefore, thou
shalt behold the things which thou hast desired.

11:7 And behold this thing shall be given unto thee for a sign, that
after thou hast beheld the tree which bore the fruit which thy father
tasted, thou shalt also behold a man descending out of heaven, and him
shall ye witness; and after ye have witnessed him ye shall bear record
that it is the Son of God.

11:8 And it came to pass that the Spirit said unto me: Look! And I
looked and beheld a tree; and it was like unto the tree which my father
had seen; and the beauty thereof was far beyond, yea, exceeding of all
beauty; and the whiteness thereof did exceed the whiteness of the
driven snow.

11:9 And it came to pass after I had seen the tree, I said unto the
Spirit: I behold thou hast shown unto me the tree which is precious
above all.

11:10 And he said unto me: What desirest thou?

11:11 And I said unto him: To know the interpretation thereof—for I
spake unto him as a man speaketh; for I beheld that he was in the form
of a man; yet nevertheless, I knew that it was the Spirit of the Lord;
and he spake unto me as a man speaketh with another.

11:12 And it came to pass that he said unto me: Look! And I looked as
if to look upon him, and I saw him not; for he had gone from before my
presence.

11:13 And it came to pass that I looked and beheld the great city of
Jerusalem, and also other cities. And I beheld the city of Nazareth;
and in the city of Nazareth I beheld a virgin, and she was exceedingly
fair and white.

11:14 And it came to pass that I saw the heavens open; and an angel
came down and stood before me; and he said unto me: Nephi, what
beholdest thou?

11:15 And I said unto him: A virgin, most beautiful and fair above all
other virgins.

11:16 And he said unto me: Knowest thou the condescension of God?

11:17 And I said unto him: I know that he loveth his children;
nevertheless, I do not know the meaning of all things.

11:18 And he said unto me: Behold, the virgin whom thou seest is the
mother of the Son of God, after the manner of the flesh.

11:19 And it came to pass that I beheld that she was carried away in
the Spirit; and after she had been carried away in the Spirit for the
space of a time the angel spake unto me, saying: Look!

11:20 And I looked and beheld the virgin again, bearing a child in her
arms.

11:21 And the angel said unto me: Behold the Lamb of God, yea, even the
Son of the Eternal Father! Knowest thou the meaning of the tree which
thy father saw?

11:22 And I answered him, saying: Yea, it is the love of God, which
sheddeth itself abroad in the hearts of the children of men; wherefore,
it is the most desirable above all things.

11:23 And he spake unto me, saying: Yea, and the most joyous to the
soul.

11:24 And after he had said these words, he said unto me: Look! And I
looked, and I beheld the Son of God going forth among the children of
men; and I saw many fall down at his feet and worship him.

11:25 And it came to pass that I beheld that the rod of iron, which my
father had seen, was the word of God, which led to the fountain of
living waters, or to the tree of life; which waters are a
representation of the love of God; and I also beheld that the tree of
life was a representation of the love of God.

11:26 And the angel said unto me again: Look and behold the
condescension of God!

11:27 And I looked and beheld the Redeemer of the world, of whom my
father had spoken; and I also beheld the prophet who should prepare the
way before him. And the Lamb of God went forth and was baptized of him;
and after he was baptized, I beheld the heavens open, and the Holy
Ghost come down out of heaven and abide upon him in the form of a dove.

11:28 And I beheld that he went forth ministering unto the people, in
power and great glory; and the multitudes were gathered together to
hear him; and I beheld that they cast him out from among them.

11:29 And I also beheld twelve others following him. And it came to
pass that they were carried away in the Spirit from before my face, and
I saw them not.

11:30 And it came to pass that the angel spake unto me again, saying:
Look! And I looked, and I beheld the heavens open again, and I saw
angels descending upon the children of men; and they did minister unto
them.

11:31 And he spake unto me again, saying: Look! And I looked, and I
beheld the Lamb of God going forth among the children of men. And I
beheld multitudes of people who were sick, and who were afflicted with
all manner of diseases, and with devils and unclean spirits; and the
angel spake and showed all these things unto me. And they were healed
by the power of the Lamb of God; and the devils and the unclean spirits
were cast out.

11:32 And it came to pass that the angel spake unto me again, saying:
Look! And I looked and beheld the Lamb of God, that he was taken by the
people; yea, the Son of the everlasting God was judged of the world;
and I saw and bear record.

11:33 And I, Nephi, saw that he was lifted up upon the cross and slain
for the sins of the world.

11:34 And after he was slain I saw the multitudes of the earth, that
they were gathered together to fight against the apostles of the Lamb;
for thus were the twelve called by the angel of the Lord.

11:35 And the multitude of the earth was gathered together; and I
beheld that they were in a large and spacious building, like unto the
building which my father saw. And the angel of the Lord spake unto me
again, saying: Behold the world and the wisdom thereof; yea, behold the
house of Israel hath gathered together to fight against the twelve
apostles of the Lamb.

11:36 And it came to pass that I saw and bear record, that the great
and spacious building was the pride of the world; and it fell, and the
fall thereof was exceedingly great. And the angel of the Lord spake
unto me again, saying: Thus shall be the destruction of all nations,
kindreds, tongues, and people, that shall fight against the twelve
apostles of the Lamb.

1 Nephi Chapter 12

12:1 And it came to pass that the angel said unto me: Look, and behold
thy seed, and also the seed of thy brethren. And I looked and beheld
the land of promise; and I beheld multitudes of people, yea, even as it
were in number as many as the sand of the sea.

12:2 And it came to pass that I beheld multitudes gathered together to
battle, one against the other; and I beheld wars, and rumors of wars,
and great slaughters with the sword among my people.

12:3 And it came to pass that I beheld many generations pass away,
after the manner of wars and contentions in the land; and I beheld many
cities, yea, even that I did not number them.

12:4 And it came to pass that I saw a mist of darkness on the face of
the land of promise; and I saw lightnings, and I heard thunderings, and
earthquakes, and all manner of tumultuous noises; and I saw the earth
and the rocks, that they rent; and I saw mountains tumbling into
pieces; and I saw the plains of the earth, that they were broken up;
and I saw many cities that they were sunk; and I saw many that they
were burned with fire; and I saw many that did tumble to the earth,
because of the quaking thereof.

12:5 And it came to pass after I saw these things, I saw the vapor of
darkness, that it passed from off the face of the earth; and behold, I
saw multitudes who had not fallen because of the great and terrible
judgments of the Lord.

12:6 And I saw the heavens open, and the Lamb of God descending out of
heaven; and he came down and showed himself unto them.

12:7 And I also saw and bear record that the Holy Ghost fell upon
twelve others; and they were ordained of God, and chosen.

12:8 And the angel spake unto me, saying: Behold the twelve disciples
of the Lamb, who are chosen to minister unto thy seed.

12:9 And he said unto me: Thou rememberest the twelve apostles of the
Lamb? Behold they are they who shall judge the twelve tribes of Israel;
wherefore, the twelve ministers of thy seed shall be judged of them;
for ye are of the house of Israel.

12:10 And these twelve ministers whom thou beholdest shall judge thy
seed. And, behold, they are righteous forever; for because of their
faith in the Lamb of God their garments are made white in his blood.

12:11 And the angel said unto me: Look! And I looked, and beheld three
generations pass away in righteousness; and their garments were white
even like unto the Lamb of God. And the angel said unto me: These are
made white in the blood of the Lamb, because of their faith in him.

12:12 And I, Nephi, also saw many of the fourth generation who passed
away in righteousness.

12:13 And it came to pass that I saw the multitudes of the earth
gathered together.

12:14 And the angel said unto me: Behold thy seed, and also the seed of
thy brethren.

12:15 And it came to pass that I looked and beheld the people of my
seed gathered together in multitudes against the seed of my brethren;
and they were gathered together to battle.

12:16 And the angel spake unto me, saying: Behold the fountain of
filthy water which thy father saw; yea, even the river of which he
spake; and the depths thereof are the depths of hell.

12:17 And the mists of darkness are the temptations of the devil, which
blindeth the eyes, and hardeneth the hearts of the children of men, and
leadeth them away into broad roads, that they perish and are lost.

12:18 And the large and spacious building, which thy father saw, is
vain imaginations and the pride of the children of men. And a great and
a terrible gulf divideth them; yea, even the word of the justice of the
Eternal God, and the Messiah who is the Lamb of God, of whom the Holy
Ghost beareth record, from the beginning of the world until this time,
and from this time henceforth and forever.

12:19 And while the angel spake these words, I beheld and saw that the
seed of my brethren did contend against my seed, according to the word
of the angel; and because of the pride of my seed, and the temptations
of the devil, I beheld that the seed of my brethren did overpower the
people of my seed.

12:20 And it came to pass that I beheld, and saw the people of the seed
of my brethren that they had overcome my seed; and they went forth in
multitudes upon the face of the land.

12:21 And I saw them gathered together in multitudes; and I saw wars
and rumors of wars among them; and in wars and rumors of wars I saw
many generations pass away.

12:22 And the angel said unto me: Behold these shall dwindle in
unbelief.

12:23 And it came to pass that I beheld, after they had dwindled in
unbelief they became a dark, and loathsome, and a filthy people, full
of idleness and all manner of abominations.

1 Nephi Chapter 13

13:1 And it came to pass that the angel spake unto me, saying: Look!
And I looked and beheld many nations and kingdoms.

13:2 And the angel said unto me: What beholdest thou? And I said: I
behold many nations and kingdoms.

13:3 And he said unto me: These are the nations and kingdoms of the
Gentiles.

13:4 And it came to pass that I saw among the nations of the Gentiles
the formation of a great church.

13:5 And the angel said unto me: Behold the formation of a church which
is most abominable above all other churches, which slayeth the saints
of God, yea, and tortureth them and bindeth them down, and yoketh them
with a yoke of iron, and bringeth them down into captivity.

13:6 And it came to pass that I beheld this great and abominable
church; and I saw the devil that he was the founder of it.

13:7 And I also saw gold, and silver, and silks, and scarlets, and
fine-twined linen, and all manner of precious clothing; and I saw many
harlots.

13:8 And the angel spake unto me, saying: Behold the gold, and the
silver, and the silks, and the scarlets, and the fine-twined linen, and
the precious clothing, and the harlots, are the desires of this great
and abominable church.

13:9 And also for the praise of the world do they destroy the saints of
God, and bring them down into captivity.

13:10 And it came to pass that I looked and beheld many waters; and
they divided the Gentiles from the seed of my brethren.

13:11 And it came to pass that the angel said unto me: Behold the wrath
of God is upon the seed of thy brethren.

13:12 And I looked and beheld a man among the Gentiles, who was
separated from the seed of my brethren by the many waters; and I beheld
the Spirit of God, that it came down and wrought upon the man; and he
went forth upon the many waters, even unto the seed of my brethren, who
were in the promised land.

13:13 And it came to pass that I beheld the Spirit of God, that it
wrought upon other Gentiles; and they went forth out of captivity, upon
the many waters.

13:14 And it came to pass that I beheld many multitudes of the Gentiles
upon the land of promise; and I beheld the wrath of God, that it was
upon the seed of my brethren; and they were scattered before the
Gentiles and were smitten.

13:15 And I beheld the Spirit of the Lord, that it was upon the
Gentiles, and they did prosper and obtain the land for their
inheritance; and I beheld that they were white, and exceedingly fair
and beautiful, like unto my people before they were slain.

13:16 And it came to pass that I, Nephi, beheld that the Gentiles who
had gone forth out of captivity did humble themselves before the Lord;
and the power of the Lord was with them.

13:17 And I beheld that their mother Gentiles were gathered together
upon the waters, and upon the land also, to battle against them.

13:18 And I beheld that the power of God was with them, and also that
the wrath of God was upon all those that were gathered together against
them to battle.

13:19 And I, Nephi, beheld that the Gentiles that had gone out of
captivity were delivered by the power of God out of the hands of all
other nations.

13:20 And it came to pass that I, Nephi, beheld that they did prosper
in the land; and I beheld a book, and it was carried forth among them.

13:21 And the angel said unto me: Knowest thou the meaning of the book?

13:22 And I said unto him: I know not.

13:23 And he said: Behold it proceedeth out of the mouth of a Jew. And
I, Nephi, beheld it; and he said unto me: The book that thou beholdest
is a record of the Jews, which contains the covenants of the Lord,
which he hath made unto the house of Israel; and it also containeth
many of the prophecies of the holy prophets; and it is a record like
unto the engravings which are upon the plates of brass, save there are
not so many; nevertheless, they contain the covenants of the Lord,
which he hath made unto the house of Israel; wherefore, they are of
great worth unto the Gentiles.

13:24 And the angel of the Lord said unto me: Thou hast beheld that the
book proceeded forth from the mouth of a Jew; and when it proceeded
forth from the mouth of a Jew it contained the fulness of the gospel of
the Lord, of whom the twelve apostles bear record; and they bear record
according to the truth which is in the Lamb of God.

13:25 Wherefore, these things go forth from the Jews in purity unto the
Gentiles, according to the truth which is in God.

13:26 And after they go forth by the hand of the twelve apostles of the
Lamb, from the Jews unto the Gentiles, thou seest the formation of a
great and abominable church, which is most abominable above all other
churches; for behold, they have taken away from the gospel of the Lamb
many parts which are plain and most precious; and also many covenants
of the Lord have they taken away.

13:27 And all this have they done that they might pervert the right
ways of the Lord, that they might blind the eyes and harden the hearts
of the children of men.

13:28 Wherefore, thou seest that after the book hath gone forth through
the hands of the great and abominable church, that there are many plain
and precious things taken away from the book, which is the book of the
Lamb of God.

13:29 And after these plain and precious things were taken away it
goeth forth unto all the nations of the Gentiles; and after it goeth
forth unto all the nations of the Gentiles, yea, even across the many
waters which thou hast seen with the Gentiles which have gone forth out
of captivity, thou seest—because of the many plain and precious things
which have been taken out of the book, which were plain unto the
understanding of the children of men, according to the plainness which
is in the Lamb of God—because of these things which are taken away out
of the gospel of the Lamb, an exceedingly great many do stumble, yea,
insomuch that Satan hath great power over them.

13:30 Nevertheless, thou beholdest that the Gentiles who have gone
forth out of captivity, and have been lifted up by the power of God
above all other nations, upon the face of the land which is choice
above all other lands, which is the land that the Lord God hath
covenanted with thy father that his seed should have for the land of
their inheritance; wherefore, thou seest that the Lord God will not
suffer that the Gentiles will utterly destroy the mixture of thy seed,
which are among thy brethren.

13:31 Neither will he suffer that the Gentiles shall destroy the seed
of thy brethren.

13:32 Neither will the Lord God suffer that the Gentiles shall forever
remain in that awful state of blindness, which thou beholdest they are
in, because of the plain and most precious parts of the gospel of the
Lamb which have been kept back by that abominable church, whose
formation thou hast seen.

13:33 Wherefore saith the Lamb of God: I will be merciful unto the
Gentiles, unto the visiting of the remnant of the house of Israel in
great judgment.

13:34 And it came to pass that the angel of the Lord spake unto me,
saying: Behold, saith the Lamb of God, after I have visited the remnant
of the house of Israel—and this remnant of whom I speak is the seed of
thy father—wherefore, after I have visited them in judgment, and
smitten them by the hand of the Gentiles, and after the Gentiles do
stumble exceedingly, because of the most plain and precious parts of
the gospel of the Lamb which have been kept back by that abominable
church, which is the mother of harlots, saith the Lamb—I will be
merciful unto the Gentiles in that day, insomuch that I will bring
forth unto them, in mine own power, much of my gospel, which shall be
plain and precious, saith the Lamb.

13:35 For, behold, saith the Lamb: I will manifest myself unto thy
seed, that they shall write many things which I shall minister unto
them, which shall be plain and precious; and after thy seed shall be
destroyed, and dwindle in unbelief, and also the seed of thy brethren,
behold, these things shall be hid up, to come forth unto the Gentiles,
by the gift and power of the Lamb.

13:36 And in them shall be written my gospel, saith the Lamb, and my
rock and my salvation.

13:37 And blessed are they who shall seek to bring forth my Zion at
that day, for they shall have the gift and the power of the Holy Ghost;
and if they endure unto the end they shall be lifted up at the last
day, and shall be saved in the everlasting kingdom of the Lamb; and
whoso shall publish peace, yea, tidings of great joy, how beautiful
upon the mountains shall they be.

13:38 And it came to pass that I beheld the remnant of the seed of my
brethren, and also the book of the Lamb of God, which had proceeded
forth from the mouth of the Jew, that it came forth from the Gentiles
unto the remnant of the seed of my brethren.

13:39 And after it had come forth unto them I beheld other books, which
came forth by the power of the Lamb, from the Gentiles unto them, unto
the convincing of the Gentiles and the remnant of the seed of my
brethren, and also the Jews who were scattered upon all the face of the
earth, that the records of the prophets and of the twelve apostles of
the Lamb are true.

13:40 And the angel spake unto me, saying: These last records, which
thou hast seen among the Gentiles, shall establish the truth of the
first, which are of the twelve apostles of the Lamb, and shall make
known the plain and precious things which have been taken away from
them; and shall make known to all kindreds, tongues, and people, that
the Lamb of God is the Son of the Eternal Father, and the Savior of the
world; and that all men must come unto him, or they cannot be saved.

13:41 And they must come according to the words which shall be
established by the mouth of the Lamb; and the words of the Lamb shall
be made known in the records of thy seed, as well as in the records of
the twelve apostles of the Lamb; wherefore they both shall be
established in one; for there is one God and one Shepherd over all the
earth.

13:42 And the time cometh that he shall manifest himself unto all
nations, both unto the Jews and also unto the Gentiles; and after he
has manifested himself unto the Jews and also unto the Gentiles, then
he shall manifest himself unto the Gentiles and also unto the Jews, and
the last shall be first, and the first shall be last.

1 Nephi Chapter 14

14:1 And it shall come to pass, that if the Gentiles shall hearken unto
the Lamb of God in that day that he shall manifest himself unto them in
word, and also in power, in very deed, unto the taking away of their
stumbling blocks—

14:2 And harden not their hearts against the Lamb of God, they shall be
numbered among the seed of thy father; yea, they shall be numbered
among the house of Israel; and they shall be a blessed people upon the
promised land forever; they shall be no more brought down into
captivity; and the house of Israel shall no more be confounded.

14:3 And that great pit, which hath been digged for them by that great
and abominable church, which was founded by the devil and his children,
that he might lead away the souls of men down to hell—yea, that great
pit which hath been digged for the destruction of men shall be filled
by those who digged it, unto their utter destruction, saith the Lamb of
God; not the destruction of the soul, save it be the casting of it into
that hell which hath no end.

14:4 For behold, this is according to the captivity of the devil, and
also according to the justice of God, upon all those who will work
wickedness and abomination before him.

14:5 And it came to pass that the angel spake unto me, Nephi, saying:
Thou hast beheld that if the Gentiles repent it shall be well with
them; and thou also knowest concerning the covenants of the Lord unto
the house of Israel; and thou also hast heard that whoso repenteth not
must perish.

14:6 Therefore, wo be unto the Gentiles if it so be that they harden
their hearts against the Lamb of God.

14:7 For the time cometh, saith the Lamb of God, that I will work a
great and a marvelous work among the children of men; a work which
shall be everlasting, either on the one hand or on the other—either to
the convincing of them unto peace and life eternal, or unto the
deliverance of them to the hardness of their hearts and the blindness
of their minds unto their being brought down into captivity, and also
into destruction, both temporally and spiritually, according to the
captivity of the devil, of which I have spoken.

14:8 And it came to pass that when the angel had spoken these words, he
said unto me: Rememberest thou the covenants of the Father unto the
house of Israel? I said unto him, Yea.

14:9 And it came to pass that he said unto me: Look, and behold that
great and abominable church, which is the mother of abominations, whose
founder is the devil.

14:10 And he said unto me: Behold there are save two churches only; the
one is the church of the Lamb of God, and the other is the church of
the devil; wherefore, whoso belongeth not to the church of the Lamb of
God belongeth to that great church, which is the mother of
abominations; and she is the whore of all the earth.

14:11 And it came to pass that I looked and beheld the whore of all the
earth, and she sat upon many waters; and she had dominion over all the
earth, among all nations, kindreds, tongues, and people.

14:12 And it came to pass that I beheld the church of the Lamb of God,
and its numbers were few, because of the wickedness and abominations of
the whore who sat upon many waters; nevertheless, I beheld that the
church of the Lamb, who were the saints of God, were also upon all the
face of the earth; and their dominions upon the face of the earth were
small, because of the wickedness of the great whore whom I saw.

14:13 And it came to pass that I beheld that the great mother of
abominations did gather together multitudes upon the face of all the
earth, among all the nations of the Gentiles, to fight against the Lamb
of God.

14:14 And it came to pass that I, Nephi, beheld the power of the Lamb
of God, that it descended upon the saints of the church of the Lamb,
and upon the covenant people of the Lord, who were scattered upon all
the face of the earth; and they were armed with righteousness and with
the power of God in great glory.

14:15 And it came to pass that I beheld that the wrath of God was
poured out upon that great and abominable church, insomuch that there
were wars and rumors of wars among all the nations and kindreds of the
earth.

14:16 And as there began to be wars and rumors of wars among all the
nations which belonged to the mother of abominations, the angel spake
unto me, saying: Behold, the wrath of God is upon the mother of
harlots; and behold, thou seest all these things—

14:17 And when the day cometh that the wrath of God is poured out upon
the mother of harlots, which is the great and abominable church of all
the earth, whose founder is the devil, then, at that day, the work of
the Father shall commence, in preparing the way for the fulfilling of
his covenants, which he hath made to his people who are of the house of
Israel.

14:18 And it came to pass that the angel spake unto me, saying: Look!

14:19 And I looked and beheld a man, and he was dressed in a white
robe.

14:20 And the angel said unto me: Behold one of the twelve apostles of
the Lamb.

14:21 Behold, he shall see and write the remainder of these things;
yea, and also many things which have been.

14:22 And he shall also write concerning the end of the world.

14:23 Wherefore, the things which he shall write are just and true; and
behold they are written in the book which thou beheld proceeding out of
the mouth of the Jew; and at the time they proceeded out of the mouth
of the Jew, or, at the time the book proceeded out of the mouth of the
Jew, the things which were written were plain and pure, and most
precious and easy to the understanding of all men.

14:24 And behold, the things which this apostle of the Lamb shall write
are many things which thou hast seen; and behold, the remainder shalt
thou see.

14:25 But the things which thou shalt see hereafter thou shalt not
write; for the Lord God hath ordained the apostle of the Lamb of God
that he should write them.

14:26 And also others who have been, to them hath he shown all things,
and they have written them; and they are sealed up to come forth in
their purity, according to the truth which is in the Lamb, in the own
due time of the Lord, unto the house of Israel.

14:27 And I, Nephi, heard and bear record, that the name of the apostle
of the Lamb was John, according to the word of the angel.

14:28 And behold, I, Nephi, am forbidden that I should write the
remainder of the things which I saw and heard; wherefore the things
which I have written sufficeth me; and I have written but a small part
of the things which I saw.

14:29 And I bear record that I saw the things which my father saw, and
the angel of the Lord did make them known unto me.

14:30 And now I make an end of speaking concerning the things which I
saw while I was carried away in the spirit; and if all the things which
I saw are not written, the things which I have written are true. And
thus it is. Amen.

1 Nephi Chapter 15

15:1 And it came to pass that after I, Nephi, had been carried away in
the spirit, and seen all these things, I returned to the tent of my
father.

15:2 And it came to pass that I beheld my brethren, and they were
disputing one with another concerning the things my father had spoken
unto them.

15:3 For he truly spake many great things unto them, which were hard to
be understood, save a man should inquire of the Lord; and they being
hard in their hearts, therefore they did not look unto the Lord as they
ought.

15:4 And now I, Nephi, was grieved because of the hardness of their
hearts, and also, because of the things which I had seen, and knew they
must unavoidably come to pass because of the great wickedness of the
children of men.

15:5 And it came to pass that I was overcome because of my afflictions,
for I considered that mine afflictions were great above all, because of
the destruction of my people, for I had beheld their fall.

15:6 And it came to pass that after I had received strength I spake
unto my brethren, desiring to know of them the cause of their
disputations.

15:7 And they said: Behold, we cannot understand the words which our
father hath spoken concerning the natural branches of the olive-tree,
and also concerning the Gentiles.

15:8 And I said unto them: Have ye inquired of the Lord?

15:9 And they said unto me: We have not; for the Lord maketh no such
thing known unto us.

15:10 Behold, I said unto them: How is it that ye do not keep the
commandments of the Lord? How is it that ye will perish, because of the
hardness of your hearts?

15:11 Do ye not remember the things which the Lord hath said?—If ye
will not harden your hearts, and ask me in faith, believing that ye
shall receive, with diligence in keeping my commandments, surely these
things shall be made known unto you.

15:12 Behold, I say unto you, that the house of Israel was compared
unto an olive-tree, by the Spirit of the Lord which was in our father;
and behold are we not broken off from the house of Israel, and are we
not a branch of the house of Israel?

15:13 And now, the thing which our father meaneth concerning the
grafting in of the natural branches through the fulness of the
Gentiles, is, that in the latter days, when our seed shall have
dwindled in unbelief, yea, for the space of many years, and many
generations after the Messiah shall be manifested in body unto the
children of men, then shall the fulness of the gospel of the Messiah
come unto the Gentiles, and from the Gentiles unto the remnant of our
seed—

15:14 And at that day shall the remnant of our seed know that they are
of the house of Israel, and that they are the covenant people of the
Lord; and then shall they know and come to the knowledge of their
forefathers, and also to the knowledge of the gospel of their Redeemer,
which was ministered unto their fathers by him; wherefore, they shall
come to the knowledge of their Redeemer and the very points of his
doctrine, that they may know how to come unto him and be saved.

15:15 And then at that day will they not rejoice and give praise unto
their everlasting God, their rock and their salvation? Yea, at that
day, will they not receive the strength and nourishment from the true
vine? Yea, will they not come unto the true fold of God?

15:16 Behold, I say unto you, Yea; they shall be remembered again among
the house of Israel; they shall be grafted in, being a natural branch
of the olive-tree, into the true olive-tree.

15:17 And this is what our father meaneth; and he meaneth that it will
not come to pass until after they are scattered by the Gentiles; and he
meaneth that it shall come by way of the Gentiles, that the Lord may
show his power unto the Gentiles, for the very cause that he shall be
rejected of the Jews, or of the house of Israel.

15:18 Wherefore, our father hath not spoken of our seed alone, but also
of all the house of Israel, pointing to the covenant which should be
fulfilled in the latter days; which covenant the Lord made to our
father Abraham, saying: In thy seed shall all the kindreds of the earth
be blessed.

15:19 And it came to pass that I, Nephi, spake much unto them
concerning these things; yea, I spake unto them concerning the
restoration of the Jews in the latter days.

15:20 And I did rehearse unto them the words of Isaiah, who spake
concerning the restoration of the Jews, or of the house of Israel; and
after they were restored they should no more be confounded, neither
should they be scattered again. And it came to pass that I did speak
many words unto my brethren, that they were pacified and did humble
themselves before the Lord.

15:21 And it came to pass that they did speak unto me again, saying:
What meaneth this thing which our father saw in a dream? What meaneth
the tree which he saw?

15:22 And I said unto them: It was a representation of the tree of
life.

15:23 And they said unto me: What meaneth the rod of iron which our
father saw, that led to the tree?

15:24 And I said unto them that it was the word of God, and whoso would
hearken unto the word of God, and would hold fast unto it, they would
never perish; neither could the temptations and the fiery darts of the
adversary overpower them unto blindness, to lead them away to
destruction.

15:25 Wherefore, I, Nephi, did exhort them to give heed unto the word
of the Lord; yea, I did exhort them with all the energies of my soul,
and with all the faculty which I possessed, that they would give heed
to the word of God and remember to keep his commandments always in all
things.

15:26 And they said unto me: What meaneth the river of water which our
father saw?

15:27 And I said unto them that the water which my father saw was
filthiness; and so much was his mind swallowed up in other things that
he beheld not the filthiness of the water.

15:28 And I said unto them that it was an awful gulf, which separated
the wicked from the tree of life, and also from the saints of God.

15:29 And I said unto them that it was a representation of that awful
hell, which the angel said unto me was prepared for the wicked.

15:30 And I said unto them that our father also saw that the justice of
God did also divide the wicked from the righteous; and the brightness
thereof was like unto the brightness of a flaming fire, which ascendeth
up unto God forever and ever, and hath no end.

15:31 And they said unto me: Doth this thing mean the torment of the
body in the days of probation, or doth it mean the final state of the
soul after the death of the temporal body, or doth it speak of the
things which are temporal?

15:32 And it came to pass that I said unto them that it was a
representation of things both temporal and spiritual; for the day
should come that they must be judged of their works, yea, even the
works which were done by the temporal body in their days of probation.

15:33 Wherefore, if they should die in their wickedness they must be
cast off also, as to the things which are spiritual, which are
pertaining to righteousness; wherefore, they must be brought to stand
before God, to be judged of their works; and if their works have been
filthiness they must needs be filthy; and if they be filthy it must
needs be that they cannot dwell in the kingdom of God; if so, the
kingdom of God must be filthy also.

15:34 But behold, I say unto you, the kingdom of God is not filthy, and
there cannot any unclean thing enter into the kingdom of God; wherefore
there must needs be a place of filthiness prepared for that which is
filthy.

15:35 And there is a place prepared, yea, even that awful hell of which
I have spoken, and the devil is the preparator of it; wherefore the
final state of the souls of men is to dwell in the kingdom of God, or
to be cast out because of that justice of which I have spoken.

15:36 Wherefore, the wicked are rejected from the righteous, and also
from that tree of life, whose fruit is most precious and most desirable
above all other fruits; yea, and it is the greatest of all the gifts of
God. And thus I spake unto my brethren. Amen.

1 Nephi Chapter 16

16:1 And now it came to pass that after I, Nephi, had made an end of
speaking to my brethren, behold they said unto me: Thou hast declared
unto us hard things, more than we are able to bear.

16:2 And it came to pass that I said unto them that I knew that I had
spoken hard things against the wicked, according to the truth; and the
righteous have I justified, and testified that they should be lifted up
at the last day; wherefore, the guilty taketh the truth to be hard, for
it cutteth them to the very center.

16:3 And now my brethren, if ye were righteous and were willing to
hearken to the truth, and give heed unto it, that ye might walk
uprightly before God, then ye would not murmur because of the truth,
and say: Thou speakest hard things against us.

16:4 And it came to pass that I, Nephi, did exhort my brethren, with
all diligence, to keep the commandments of the Lord.

16:5 And it came to pass that they did humble themselves before the
Lord; insomuch that I had joy and great hopes of them, that they would
walk in the paths of righteousness.

16:6 Now, all these things were said and done as my father dwelt in a
tent in the valley which he called Lemuel.

16:7 And it came to pass that I, Nephi, took one of the daughters of
Ishmael to wife; and also, my brethren took of the daughters of Ishmael
to wife; and also Zoram took the eldest daughter of Ishmael to wife.

16:8 And thus my father had fulfilled all the commandments of the Lord
which had been given unto him. And also, I, Nephi, had been blessed of
the Lord exceedingly.

16:9 And it came to pass that the voice of the Lord spake unto my
father by night, and commanded him that on the morrow he should take
his journey into the wilderness.

16:10 And it came to pass that as my father arose in the morning, and
went forth to the tent door, to his great astonishment he beheld upon
the ground a round ball of curious workmanship; and it was of fine
brass. And within the ball were two spindles; and the one pointed the
way whither we should go into the wilderness.

16:11 And it came to pass that we did gather together whatsoever things
we should carry into the wilderness, and all the remainder of our
provisions which the Lord had given unto us; and we did take seed of
every kind that we might carry into the wilderness.

16:12 And it came to pass that we did take our tents and depart into
the wilderness, across the river Laman.

16:13 And it came to pass that we traveled for the space of four days,
nearly a south-southeast direction, and we did pitch our tents again;
and we did call the name of the place Shazer.

16:14 And it came to pass that we did take our bows and our arrows, and
go forth into the wilderness to slay food for our families; and after
we had slain food for our families we did return again to our families
in the wilderness, to the place of Shazer. And we did go forth again in
the wilderness, following the same direction, keeping in the most
fertile parts of the wilderness, which were in the borders near the Red
Sea.

16:15 And it came to pass that we did travel for the space of many
days, slaying food by the way, with our bows and our arrows and our
stones and our slings.

16:16 And we did follow the directions of the ball, which led us in the
more fertile parts of the wilderness.

16:17 And after we had traveled for the space of many days, we did
pitch our tents for the space of a time, that we might again rest
ourselves and obtain food for our families.

16:18 And it came to pass that as I, Nephi, went forth to slay food,
behold, I did break my bow, which was made of fine steel; and after I
did break my bow, behold, my brethren were angry with me because of the
loss of my bow, for we did obtain no food.

16:19 And it came to pass that we did return without food to our
families, and being much fatigued, because of their journeying, they
did suffer much for the want of food.

16:20 And it came to pass that Laman and Lemuel and the sons of Ishmael
did begin to murmur exceedingly, because of their sufferings and
afflictions in the wilderness; and also my father began to murmur
against the Lord his God; yea, and they were all exceedingly sorrowful,
even that they did murmur against the Lord.

16:21 Now it came to pass that I, Nephi, having been afflicted with my
brethren because of the loss of my bow, and their bows having lost
their springs, it began to be exceedingly difficult, yea, insomuch that
we could obtain no food.

16:22 And it came to pass that I, Nephi, did speak much unto my
brethren, because they had hardened their hearts again, even unto
complaining against the Lord their God.

16:23 And it came to pass that I, Nephi, did make out of wood a bow,
and out of a straight stick, an arrow; wherefore, I did arm myself with
a bow and an arrow, with a sling and with stones. And I said unto my
father: Whither shall I go to obtain food?

16:24 And it came to pass that he did inquire of the Lord, for they had
humbled themselves because of my words; for I did say many things unto
them in the energy of my soul.

16:25 And it came to pass that the voice of the Lord came unto my
father; and he was truly chastened because of his murmuring against the
Lord, insomuch that he was brought down into the depths of sorrow.

16:26 And it came to pass that the voice of the Lord said unto him:
Look upon the ball, and behold the things which are written.

16:27 And it came to pass that when my father beheld the things which
were written upon the ball, he did fear and tremble exceedingly, and
also my brethren and the sons of Ishmael and our wives.

16:28 And it came to pass that I, Nephi, beheld the pointers which were
in the ball, that they did work according to the faith and diligence
and heed which we did give unto them.

16:29 And there was also written upon them a new writing, which was
plain to be read, which did give us understanding concerning the ways
of the Lord; and it was written and changed from time to time,
according to the faith and diligence which we gave unto it. And thus we
see that by small means the Lord can bring about great things.

16:30 And it came to pass that I, Nephi, did go forth up into the top
of the mountain, according to the directions which were given upon the
ball.

16:31 And it came to pass that I did slay wild beasts, insomuch that I
did obtain food for our families.

16:32 And it came to pass that I did return to our tents, bearing the
beasts which I had slain; and now when they beheld that I had obtained
food, how great was their joy! And it came to pass that they did humble
themselves before the Lord, and did give thanks unto him.

16:33 And it came to pass that we did again take our journey, traveling
nearly the same course as in the beginning; and after we had traveled
for the space of many days we did pitch our tents again, that we might
tarry for the space of a time.

16:34 And it came to pass that Ishmael died, and was buried in the
place which was called Nahom.

16:35 And it came to pass that the daughters of Ishmael did mourn
exceedingly, because of the loss of their father, and because of their
afflictions in the wilderness; and they did murmur against my father,
because he had brought them out of the land of Jerusalem, saying: Our
father is dead; yea, and we have wandered much in the wilderness, and
we have suffered much affliction, hunger, thirst, and fatigue; and
after all these sufferings we must perish in the wilderness with
hunger.

16:36 And thus they did murmur against my father, and also against me;
and they were desirous to return again to Jerusalem.

16:37 And Laman said unto Lemuel and also unto the sons of Ishmael:
Behold, let us slay our father, and also our brother Nephi, who has
taken it upon him to be our ruler and our teacher, who are his elder
brethren.

16:38 Now, he says that the Lord has talked with him, and also that
angels have ministered unto him. But behold, we know that he lies unto
us; and he tells us these things, and he worketh many things by his
cunning arts, that he may deceive our eyes, thinking, perhaps, that he
may lead us away into some strange wilderness; and after he has led us
away, he has thought to make himself a king and a ruler over us, that
he may do with us according to his will and pleasure. And after this
manner did my brother Laman stir up their hearts to anger.

16:39 And it came to pass that the Lord was with us, yea, even the
voice of the Lord came and did speak many words unto them, and did
chasten them exceedingly; and after they were chastened by the voice of
the Lord they did turn away their anger, and did repent of their sins,
insomuch that the Lord did bless us again with food, that we did not
perish.

1 Nephi Chapter 17

17:1 And it came to pass that we did again take our journey in the
wilderness; and we did travel nearly eastward from that time forth. And
we did travel and wade through much affliction in the wilderness; and
our women did bear children in the wilderness.

17:2 And so great were the blessings of the Lord upon us, that while we
did live upon raw meat in the wilderness, our women did give plenty of
suck for their children, and were strong, yea, even like unto the men;
and they began to bear their journeyings without murmurings.

17:3 And thus we see that the commandments of God must be fulfilled.
And if it so be that the children of men keep the commandments of God
he doth nourish them, and strengthen them, and provide means whereby
they can accomplish the thing which he has commanded them; wherefore,
he did provide means for us while we did sojourn in the wilderness.

17:4 And we did sojourn for the space of many years, yea, even eight
years in the wilderness.

17:5 And we did come to the land which we called Bountiful, because of
its much fruit and also wild honey; and all these things were prepared
of the Lord that we might not perish. And we beheld the sea, which we
called Irreantum, which, being interpreted, is many waters.

17:6 And it came to pass that we did pitch our tents by the seashore;
and notwithstanding we had suffered many afflictions and much
difficulty, yea, even so much that we cannot write them all, we were
exceedingly rejoiced when we came to the seashore; and we called the
place Bountiful, because of its much fruit.

17:7 And it came to pass that after I, Nephi, had been in the land of
Bountiful for the space of many days, the voice of the Lord came unto
me, saying: Arise, and get thee into the mountain. And it came to pass
that I arose and went up into the mountain, and cried unto the Lord.

17:8 And it came to pass that the Lord spake unto me, saying: Thou
shalt construct a ship, after the manner which I shall show thee, that
I may carry thy people across these waters.

17:9 And I said: Lord, whither shall I go that I may find ore to
molten, that I may make tools to construct the ship after the manner
which thou hast shown unto me?

17:10 And it came to pass that the Lord told me whither I should go to
find ore, that I might make tools.

17:11 And it came to pass that I, Nephi, did make a bellows wherewith
to blow the fire, of the skins of beasts; and after I had made a
bellows, that I might have wherewith to blow the fire, I did smite two
stones together that I might make fire.

17:12 For the Lord had not hitherto suffered that we should make much
fire, as we journeyed in the wilderness; for he said: I will make thy
food become sweet, that ye cook it not;

17:13 And I will also be your light in the wilderness; and I will
prepare the way before you, if it so be that ye shall keep my
commandments; wherefore, inasmuch as ye shall keep my commandments ye
shall be led towards the promised land; and ye shall know that it is by
me that ye are led.

17:14 Yea, and the Lord said also that: After ye have arrived in the
promised land, ye shall know that I, the Lord, am God; and that I, the
Lord, did deliver you from destruction; yea, that I did bring you out
of the land of Jerusalem.

17:15 Wherefore, I, Nephi, did strive to keep the commandments of the
Lord, and I did exhort my brethren to faithfulness and diligence.

17:16 And it came to pass that I did make tools of the ore which I did
molten out of the rock.

17:17 And when my brethren saw that I was about to build a ship, they
began to murmur against me, saying: Our brother is a fool, for he
thinketh that he can build a ship; yea, and he also thinketh that he
can cross these great waters.

17:18 And thus my brethren did complain against me, and were desirous
that they might not labor, for they did not believe that I could build
a ship; neither would they believe that I was instructed of the Lord.

17:19 And now it came to pass that I, Nephi, was exceedingly sorrowful
because of the hardness of their hearts; and now when they saw that I
began to be sorrowful they were glad in their hearts, insomuch that
they did rejoice over me, saying: We knew that ye could not construct a
ship, for we knew that ye were lacking in judgment; wherefore, thou
canst not accomplish so great a work.

17:20 And thou art like unto our father, led away by the foolish
imaginations of his heart; yea, he hath led us out of the land of
Jerusalem, and we have wandered in the wilderness for these many years;
and our women have toiled, being big with child; and they have borne
children in the wilderness and suffered all things, save it were death;
and it would have been better that they had died before they came out
of Jerusalem than to have suffered these afflictions.

17:21 Behold, these many years we have suffered in the wilderness,
which time we might have enjoyed our possessions and the land of our
inheritance; yea, and we might have been happy.

17:22 And we know that the people who were in the land of Jerusalem
were a righteous people; for they kept the statutes and judgments of
the Lord, and all his commandments, according to the law of Moses;
wherefore, we know that they are a righteous people; and our father
hath judged them, and hath led us away because we would hearken unto
his words; yea, and our brother is like unto him. And after this manner
of language did my brethren murmur and complain against us.

17:23 And it came to pass that I, Nephi, spake unto them, saying: Do ye
believe that our fathers, who were the children of Israel, would have
been led away out of the hands of the Egyptians if they had not
hearkened unto the words of the Lord?

17:24 Yea, do ye suppose that they would have been led out of bondage,
if the Lord had not commanded Moses that he should lead them out of
bondage?

17:25 Now ye know that the children of Israel were in bondage; and ye
know that they were laden with tasks, which were grievous to be borne;
wherefore, ye know that it must needs be a good thing for them, that
they should be brought out of bondage.

17:26 Now ye know that Moses was commanded of the Lord to do that great
work; and ye know that by his word the waters of the Red Sea were
divided hither and thither, and they passed through on dry ground.

17:27 But ye know that the Egyptians were drowned in the Red Sea, who
were the armies of Pharaoh.

17:28 And ye also know that they were fed with manna in the wilderness.

17:29 Yea, and ye also know that Moses, by his word according to the
power of God which was in him, smote the rock, and there came forth
water, that the children of Israel might quench their thirst.

17:30 And notwithstanding they being led, the Lord their God, their
Redeemer, going before them, leading them by day and giving light unto
them by night, and doing all things for them which were expedient for
man to receive, they hardened their hearts and blinded their minds, and
reviled against Moses and against the true and living God.

17:31 And it came to pass that according to his word he did destroy
them; and according to his word he did lead them; and according to his
word he did do all things for them; and there was not any thing done
save it were by his word.

17:32 And after they had crossed the river Jordan he did make them
mighty unto the driving out of the children of the land, yea, unto the
scattering them to destruction.

17:33 And now, do ye suppose that the children of this land, who were
in the land of promise, who were driven out by our fathers, do ye
suppose that they were righteous? Behold, I say unto you, Nay.

17:34 Do ye suppose that our fathers would have been more choice than
they if they had been righteous? I say unto you, Nay.

17:35 Behold, the Lord esteemeth all flesh in one; he that is righteous
is favored of God. But behold, this people had rejected every word of
God, and they were ripe in iniquity; and the fulness of the wrath of
God was upon them; and the Lord did curse the land against them, and
bless it unto our fathers; yea, he did curse it against them unto their
destruction, and he did bless it unto our fathers unto their obtaining
power over it.

17:36 Behold, the Lord hath created the earth that it should be
inhabited; and he hath created his children that they should possess
it.

17:37 And he raiseth up a righteous nation, and destroyeth the nations
of the wicked.

17:38 And he leadeth away the righteous into precious lands, and the
wicked he destroyeth, and curseth the land unto them for their sakes.

17:39 He ruleth high in the heavens, for it is his throne, and this
earth is his footstool.

17:40 And he loveth those who will have him to be their God. Behold, he
loved our fathers, and he covenanted with them, yea, even Abraham,
Isaac, and Jacob; and he remembered the covenants which he had made;
wherefore, he did bring them out of the land of Egypt.

17:41 And he did straiten them in the wilderness with his rod; for they
hardened their hearts, even as ye have; and the Lord straitened them
because of their iniquity. He sent fiery flying serpents among them;
and after they were bitten he prepared a way that they might be healed;
and the labor which they had to perform was to look; and because of the
simpleness of the way, or the easiness of it, there were many who
perished.

17:42 And they did harden their hearts from time to time, and they did
revile against Moses, and also against God; nevertheless, ye know that
they were led forth by his matchless power into the land of promise.

17:43 And now, after all these things, the time has come that they have
become wicked, yea, nearly unto ripeness; and I know not but they are
at this day about to be destroyed; for I know that the day must surely
come that they must be destroyed, save a few only, who shall be led
away into captivity.

17:44 Wherefore, the Lord commanded my father that he should depart
into the wilderness; and the Jews also sought to take away his life;
yea, and ye also have sought to take away his life; wherefore, ye are
murderers in your hearts and ye are like unto them.

17:45 Ye are swift to do iniquity but slow to remember the Lord your
God. Ye have seen an angel, and he spake unto you; yea, ye have heard
his voice from time to time; and he hath spoken unto you in a still
small voice, but ye were past feeling, that ye could not feel his
words; wherefore, he has spoken unto you like unto the voice of
thunder, which did cause the earth to shake as if it were to divide
asunder.

17:46 And ye also know that by the power of his almighty word he can
cause the earth that it shall pass away; yea, and ye know that by his
word he can cause the rough places to be made smooth, and smooth places
shall be broken up. O, then, why is it, that ye can be so hard in your
hearts?

17:47 Behold, my soul is rent with anguish because of you, and my heart
is pained; I fear lest ye shall be cast off forever. Behold, I am full
of the Spirit of God, insomuch that my frame has no strength.

17:48 And now it came to pass that when I had spoken these words, they
were angry with me, and were desirous to throw me into the depths of
the sea; and as they came forth to lay their hands upon me I spake unto
them, saying: In the name of the Almighty God, I command you that ye
touch me not, for I am filled with the power of God, even unto the
consuming of my flesh; and whoso shall lay his hands upon me shall
wither even as a dried reed; and he shall be as naught before the power
of God, for God shall smite him.

17:49 And it came to pass that I, Nephi, said unto them that they
should murmur no more against their father; neither should they
withhold their labor from me, for God had commanded me that I should
build a ship.

17:50 And I said unto them: If God had commanded me to do all things I
could do them. If he should command me that I should say unto this
water, be thou earth, it should be earth; and if I should say it, it
would be done.

17:51 And now, if the Lord has such great power, and has wrought so
many miracles among the children of men, how is it that he cannot
instruct me, that I should build a ship?

17:52 And it came to pass that I, Nephi, said many things unto my
brethren, insomuch that they were confounded and could not contend
against me; neither durst they lay their hands upon me nor touch me
with their fingers, even for the space of many days. Now they durst not
do this lest they should wither before me, so powerful was the Spirit
of God; and thus it had wrought upon them.

17:53 And it came to pass that the Lord said unto me: Stretch forth
thine hand again unto thy brethren, and they shall not wither before
thee, but I will shock them, saith the Lord, and this will I do, that
they may know that I am the Lord their God.

17:54 And it came to pass that I stretched forth my hand unto my
brethren, and they did not wither before me; but the Lord did shake
them, even according to the word which he had spoken.

17:55 And now, they said: We know of a surety that the Lord is with
thee, for we know that it is the power of the Lord that has shaken us.
And they fell down before me, and were about to worship me, but I would
not suffer them, saying: I am thy brother, yea, even thy younger
brother; wherefore, worship the Lord thy God, and honor thy father and
thy mother, that thy days may be long in the land which the Lord thy
God shall give thee.

1 Nephi Chapter 18

18:1 And it came to pass that they did worship the Lord, and did go
forth with me; and we did work timbers of curious workmanship. And the
Lord did show me from time to time after what manner I should work the
timbers of the ship.

18:2 Now I, Nephi, did not work the timbers after the manner which was
learned by men, neither did I build the ship after the manner of men;
but I did build it after the manner which the Lord had shown unto me;
wherefore, it was not after the manner of men.

18:3 And I, Nephi, did go into the mount oft, and I did pray oft unto
the Lord; wherefore the Lord showed unto me great things.

18:4 And it came to pass that after I had finished the ship, according
to the word of the Lord, my brethren beheld that it was good, and that
the workmanship thereof was exceedingly fine; wherefore, they did
humble themselves again before the Lord.

18:5 And it came to pass that the voice of the Lord came unto my
father, that we should arise and go down into the ship.

18:6 And it came to pass that on the morrow, after we had prepared all
things, much fruits and meat from the wilderness, and honey in
abundance, and provisions according to that which the Lord had
commanded us, we did go down into the ship, with all our loading and
our seeds, and whatsoever thing we had brought with us, every one
according to his age; wherefore, we did all go down into the ship, with
our wives and our children.

18:7 And now, my father had begat two sons in the wilderness; the elder
was called Jacob and the younger Joseph.

18:8 And it came to pass after we had all gone down into the ship, and
had taken with us our provisions and things which had been commanded
us, we did put forth into the sea and were driven forth before the wind
towards the promised land.

18:9 And after we had been driven forth before the wind for the space
of many days, behold, my brethren and the sons of Ishmael and also
their wives began to make themselves merry, insomuch that they began to
dance, and to sing, and to speak with much rudeness, yea, even that
they did forget by what power they had been brought thither; yea, they
were lifted up unto exceeding rudeness.

18:10 And I, Nephi, began to fear exceedingly lest the Lord should be
angry with us, and smite us because of our iniquity, that we should be
swallowed up in the depths of the sea; wherefore, I, Nephi, began to
speak to them with much soberness; but behold they were angry with me,
saying: We will not that our younger brother shall be a ruler over us.

18:11 And it came to pass that Laman and Lemuel did take me and bind me
with cords, and they did treat me with much harshness; nevertheless,
the Lord did suffer it that he might show forth his power, unto the
fulfilling of his word which he had spoken concerning the wicked.

18:12 And it came to pass that after they had bound me insomuch that I
could not move, the compass, which had been prepared of the Lord, did
cease to work.

18:13 Wherefore, they knew not whither they should steer the ship,
insomuch that there arose a great storm, yea, a great and terrible
tempest, and we were driven back upon the waters for the space of three
days; and they began to be frightened exceedingly lest they should be
drowned in the sea; nevertheless they did not loose me.

18:14 And on the fourth day, which we had been driven back, the tempest
began to be exceedingly sore.

18:15 And it came to pass that we were about to be swallowed up in the
depths of the sea. And after we had been driven back upon the waters
for the space of four days, my brethren began to see that the judgments
of God were upon them, and that they must perish save that they should
repent of their iniquities; wherefore, they came unto me, and loosed
the bands which were upon my wrist, and behold they had swollen
exceedingly; and also mine ankles were much swollen, and great was the
soreness thereof.

18:16 Nevertheless, I did look unto my God, and I did praise him all
the day long; and I did not murmur against the Lord because of mine
afflictions.

18:17 Now my father, Lehi, had said many things unto them, and also
unto the sons of Ishmael; but, behold, they did breathe out much
threatenings against anyone that should speak for me; and my parents
being stricken in years, and having suffered much grief because of
their children, they were brought down, yea, even upon their sick-beds.

18:18 Because of their grief and much sorrow, and the iniquity of my
brethren, they were brought near even to be carried out of this time to
meet their God; yea, their grey hairs were about to be brought down to
lie low in the dust; yea, even they were near to be cast with sorrow
into a watery grave.

18:19 And Jacob and Joseph also, being young, having need of much
nourishment, were grieved because of the afflictions of their mother;
and also my wife with her tears and prayers, and also my children, did
not soften the hearts of my brethren that they would loose me.

18:20 And there was nothing save it were the power of God, which
threatened them with destruction, could soften their hearts; wherefore,
when they saw that they were about to be swallowed up in the depths of
the sea they repented of the thing which they had done, insomuch that
they loosed me.

18:21 And it came to pass after they had loosed me, behold, I took the
compass, and it did work whither I desired it. And it came to pass that
I prayed unto the Lord; and after I had prayed the winds did cease, and
the storm did cease, and there was a great calm.

18:22 And it came to pass that I, Nephi, did guide the ship, that we
sailed again towards the promised land.

18:23 And it came to pass that after we had sailed for the space of
many days we did arrive at the promised land; and we went forth upon
the land, and did pitch our tents; and we did call it the promised
land.

18:24 And it came to pass that we did begin to till the earth, and we
began to plant seeds; yea, we did put all our seeds into the earth,
which we had brought from the land of Jerusalem. And it came to pass
that they did grow exceedingly; wherefore, we were blessed in
abundance.

18:25 And it came to pass that we did find upon the land of promise, as
we journeyed in the wilderness, that there were beasts in the forests
of every kind, both the cow and the ox, and the ass and the horse, and
the goat and the wild goat, and all manner of wild animals, which were
for the use of men. And we did find all manner of ore, both of gold,
and of silver, and of copper.

1 Nephi Chapter 19

19:1 And it came to pass that the Lord commanded me, wherefore I did
make plates of ore that I might engraven upon them the record of my
people. And upon the plates which I made I did engraven the record of
my father, and also our journeyings in the wilderness, and the
prophecies of my father; and also many of mine own prophecies have I
engraven upon them.

19:2 And I knew not at the time when I made them that I should be
commanded of the Lord to make these plates; wherefore, the record of my
father, and the genealogy of his fathers, and the more part of all our
proceedings in the wilderness are engraven upon those first plates of
which I have spoken; wherefore, the things which transpired before I
made these plates are, of a truth, more particularly made mention upon
the first plates.

19:3 And after I had made these plates by way of commandment, I, Nephi,
received a commandment that the ministry and the prophecies, the more
plain and precious parts of them, should be written upon these plates;
and that the things which were written should be kept for the
instruction of my people, who should possess the land, and also for
other wise purposes, which purposes are known unto the Lord.

19:4 Wherefore, I, Nephi, did make a record upon the other plates,
which gives an account, or which gives a greater account of the wars
and contentions and destructions of my people. And this have I done,
and commanded my people what they should do after I was gone; and that
these plates should be handed down from one generation to another, or
from one prophet to another, until further commandments of the Lord.

19:5 And an account of my making these plates shall be given hereafter;
and then, behold, I proceed according to that which I have spoken; and
this I do that the more sacred things may be kept for the knowledge of
my people.

19:6 Nevertheless, I do not write anything upon plates save it be that
I think it be sacred. And now, if I do err, even did they err of old;
not that I would excuse myself because of other men, but because of the
weakness which is in me, according to the flesh, I would excuse myself.

19:7 For the things which some men esteem to be of great worth, both to
the body and soul, others set at naught and trample under their feet.
Yea, even the very God of Israel do men trample under their feet; I
say, trample under their feet but I would speak in other words—they set
him at naught, and hearken not to the voice of his counsels.

19:8 And behold he cometh, according to the words of the angel, in six
hundred years from the time my father left Jerusalem.

19:9 And the world, because of their iniquity, shall judge him to be a
thing of naught; wherefore they scourge him, and he suffereth it; and
they smite him, and he suffereth it. Yea, they spit upon him, and he
suffereth it, because of his loving kindness and his long-suffering
towards the children of men.

19:10 And the God of our fathers, who were led out of Egypt, out of
bondage, and also were preserved in the wilderness by him, yea, the God
of Abraham, and of Isaac, and the God of Jacob, yieldeth himself,
according to the words of the angel, as a man, into the hands of wicked
men, to be lifted up, according to the words of Zenock, and to be
crucified, according to the words of Neum, and to be buried in a
sepulchre, according to the words of Zenos, which he spake concerning
the three days of darkness, which should be a sign given of his death
unto those who should inhabit the isles of the sea, more especially
given unto those who are of the house of Israel.

19:11 For thus spake the prophet: The Lord God surely shall visit all
the house of Israel at that day, some with his voice, because of their
righteousness, unto their great joy and salvation, and others with the
thunderings and the lightnings of his power, by tempest, by fire, and
by smoke, and vapor of darkness, and by the opening of the earth, and
by mountains which shall be carried up.

19:12 And all these things must surely come, saith the prophet Zenos.
And the rocks of the earth must rend; and because of the groanings of
the earth, many of the kings of the isles of the sea shall be wrought
upon by the Spirit of God, to exclaim: The God of nature suffers.

19:13 And as for those who are at Jerusalem, saith the prophet, they
shall be scourged by all people, because they crucify the God of
Israel, and turn their hearts aside, rejecting signs and wonders, and
the power and glory of the God of Israel.

19:14 And because they turn their hearts aside, saith the prophet, and
have despised the Holy One of Israel, they shall wander in the flesh,
and perish, and become a hiss and a byword, and be hated among all
nations.

19:15 Nevertheless, when that day cometh, saith the prophet, that they
no more turn aside their hearts against the Holy One of Israel, then
will he remember the covenants which he made to their fathers.

19:16 Yea, then will he remember the isles of the sea; yea, and all the
people who are of the house of Israel, will I gather in, saith the
Lord, according to the words of the prophet Zenos, from the four
quarters of the earth.

19:17 Yea, and all the earth shall see the salvation of the Lord, saith
the prophet; every nation, kindred, tongue and people shall be blessed.

19:18 And I, Nephi, have written these things unto my people, that
perhaps I might persuade them that they would remember the Lord their
Redeemer.

19:19 Wherefore, I speak unto all the house of Israel, if it so be that
they should obtain these things.

19:20 For behold, I have workings in the spirit, which doth weary me
even that all my joints are weak, for those who are at Jerusalem; for
had not the Lord been merciful, to show unto me concerning them, even
as he had prophets of old, I should have perished also.

19:21 And he surely did show unto the prophets of old all things
concerning them; and also he did show unto many concerning us;
wherefore, it must needs be that we know concerning them for they are
written upon the plates of brass.

19:22 Now it came to pass that I, Nephi, did teach my brethren these
things; and it came to pass that I did read many things to them, which
were engraven upon the plates of brass, that they might know concerning
the doings of the Lord in other lands, among people of old.

19:23 And I did read many things unto them which were written in the
books of Moses; but that I might more fully persuade them to believe in
the Lord their Redeemer I did read unto them that which was written by
the prophet Isaiah; for I did liken all scriptures unto us, that it
might be for our profit and learning.

19:24 Wherefore I spake unto them, saying: Hear ye the words of the
prophet, ye who are a remnant of the house of Israel, a branch who have
been broken off; hear ye the words of the prophet, which were written
unto all the house of Israel, and liken them unto yourselves, that ye
may have hope as well as your brethren from whom ye have been broken
off; for after this manner has the prophet written.

1 Nephi Chapter 20

20:1 Hearken and hear this, O house of Jacob, who are called by the
name of Israel, and are come forth out of the waters of Judah, or out
of the waters of baptism, who swear by the name of the Lord, and make
mention of the God of Israel, yet they swear not in truth nor in
righteousness.

20:2 Nevertheless, they call themselves of the holy city, but they do
not stay themselves upon the God of Israel, who is the Lord of Hosts;
yea, the Lord of Hosts is his name.

20:3 Behold, I have declared the former things from the beginning; and
they went forth out of my mouth, and I showed them. I did show them
suddenly.

20:4 And I did it because I knew that thou art obstinate, and thy neck
is an iron sinew, and thy brow brass;

20:5 And I have even from the beginning declared to thee; before it
came to pass I showed them thee; and I showed them for fear lest thou
shouldst say—mine idol hath done them, and my graven image, and my
molten image hath commanded them.

20:6 Thou hast seen and heard all this; and will ye not declare them?
And that I have showed thee new things from this time, even hidden
things, and thou didst not know them.

20:7 They are created now, and not from the beginning, even before the
day when thou heardest them not they were declared unto thee, lest thou
shouldst say—Behold I knew them.

20:8 Yea, and thou heardest not; yea, thou knewest not; yea, from that
time thine ear was not opened; for I knew that thou wouldst deal very
treacherously, and wast called a transgressor from the womb.

20:9 Nevertheless, for my name’s sake will I defer mine anger, and for
my praise will I refrain from thee, that I cut thee not off.

20:10 For, behold, I have refined thee, I have chosen thee in the
furnace of affliction.

20:11 For mine own sake, yea, for mine own sake will I do this, for I
will not suffer my name to be polluted, and I will not give my glory
unto another.

20:12 Hearken unto me, O Jacob, and Israel my called, for I am he; I am
the first, and I am also the last.

20:13 Mine hand hath also laid the foundation of the earth, and my
right hand hath spanned the heavens. I call unto them and they stand up
together.

20:14 All ye, assemble yourselves, and hear; who among them hath
declared these things unto them? The Lord hath loved him; yea, and he
will fulfill his word which he hath declared by them; and he will do
his pleasure on Babylon, and his arm shall come upon the Chaldeans.

20:15 Also, saith the Lord; I the Lord, yea, I have spoken; yea, I have
called him to declare, I have brought him, and he shall make his way
prosperous.

20:16 Come ye near unto me; I have not spoken in secret; from the
beginning, from the time that it was declared have I spoken; and the
Lord God, and his Spirit, hath sent me.

20:17 And thus saith the Lord, thy Redeemer, the Holy One of Israel; I
have sent him, the Lord thy God who teacheth thee to profit, who
leadeth thee by the way thou shouldst go, hath done it.

20:18 O that thou hadst hearkened to my commandments—then had thy peace
been as a river, and thy righteousness as the waves of the sea.

20:19 Thy seed also had been as the sand; the offspring of thy bowels
like the gravel thereof; his name should not have been cut off nor
destroyed from before me.

20:20 Go ye forth of Babylon, flee ye from the Chaldeans, with a voice
of singing declare ye, tell this, utter to the end of the earth; say
ye: The Lord hath redeemed his servant Jacob.

20:21 And they thirsted not; he led them through the deserts; he caused
the waters to flow out of the rock for them; he clave the rock also and
the waters gushed out.

20:22 And notwithstanding he hath done all this, and greater also,
there is no peace, saith the Lord, unto the wicked.

1 Nephi Chapter 21

21:1 And again: Hearken, O ye house of Israel, all ye that are broken
off and are driven out because of the wickedness of the pastors of my
people; yea, all ye that are broken off, that are scattered abroad, who
are of my people, O house of Israel. Listen, O isles, unto me, and
hearken ye people from far; the Lord hath called me from the womb; from
the bowels of my mother hath he made mention of my name.

21:2 And he hath made my mouth like a sharp sword; in the shadow of his
hand hath he hid me, and made me a polished shaft; in his quiver hath
he hid me;

21:3 And said unto me: Thou art my servant, O Israel, in whom I will be
glorified.

21:4 Then I said, I have labored in vain, I have spent my strength for
naught and in vain; surely my judgment is with the Lord, and my work
with my God.

21:5 And now, saith the Lord—that formed me from the womb that I should
be his servant, to bring Jacob again to him—though Israel be not
gathered, yet shall I be glorious in the eyes of the Lord, and my God
shall be my strength.

21:6 And he said: It is a light thing that thou shouldst be my servant
to raise up the tribes of Jacob, and to restore the preserved of
Israel. I will also give thee for a light to the Gentiles, that thou
mayest be my salvation unto the ends of the earth.

21:7 Thus saith the Lord, the Redeemer of Israel, his Holy One, to him
whom man despiseth, to him whom the nation abhorreth, to servant of
rulers: Kings shall see and arise, princes also shall worship, because
of the Lord that is faithful.

21:8 Thus saith the Lord: In an acceptable time have I heard thee, O
isles of the sea, and in a day of salvation have I helped thee; and I
will preserve thee, and give thee my servant for a covenant of the
people, to establish the earth, to cause to inherit the desolate
heritages;

21:9 That thou mayest say to the prisoners: Go forth; to them that sit
in darkness: Show yourselves. They shall feed in the ways, and their
pastures shall be in all high places.

21:10 They shall not hunger nor thirst, neither shall the heat nor the
sun smite them; for he that hath mercy on them shall lead them, even by
the springs of water shall he guide them.

21:11 And I will make all my mountains a way, and my highways shall be
exalted.

21:12 And then, O house of Israel, behold, these shall come from far;
and lo, these from the north and from the west; and these from the land
of Sinim.

21:13 Sing, O heavens; and be joyful, O earth; for the feet of those
who are in the east shall be established; and break forth into singing,
O mountains; for they shall be smitten no more; for the Lord hath
comforted his people, and will have mercy upon his afflicted.

21:14 But, behold, Zion hath said: The Lord hath forsaken me, and my
Lord hath forgotten me—but he will show that he hath not.

21:15 For can a woman forget her sucking child, that she should not
have compassion on the son of her womb? Yea, they may forget, yet will
I not forget thee, O house of Israel.

21:16 Behold, I have graven thee upon the palms of my hands; thy walls
are continually before me.

21:17 Thy children shall make haste against thy destroyers; and they
that made thee waste shall go forth of thee.

21:18 Lift up thine eyes round about and behold; all these gather
themselves together, and they shall come to thee. And as I live, saith
the Lord, thou shalt surely clothe thee with them all, as with an
ornament, and bind them on even as a bride.

21:19 For thy waste and thy desolate places, and the land of thy
destruction, shall even now be too narrow by reason of the inhabitants;
and they that swallowed thee up shall be far away.

21:20 The children whom thou shalt have, after thou hast lost the
first, shall again in thine ears say: The place is too strait for me;
give place to me that I may dwell.

21:21 Then shalt thou say in thine heart: Who hath begotten me these,
seeing I have lost my children, and am desolate, a captive, and
removing to and fro? And who hath brought up these? Behold, I was left
alone; these, where have they been?

21:22 Thus saith the Lord God: Behold, I will lift up mine hand to the
Gentiles, and set up my standard to the people; and they shall bring
thy sons in their arms, and thy daughters shall be carried upon their
shoulders.

21:23 And kings shall be thy nursing fathers, and their queens thy
nursing mothers; they shall bow down to thee with their face towards
the earth, and lick up the dust of thy feet; and thou shalt know that I
am the Lord; for they shall not be ashamed that wait for me.

21:24 For shall the prey be taken from the mighty, or the lawful
captives delivered?

21:25 But thus saith the Lord, even the captives of the mighty shall be
taken away, and the prey of the terrible shall be delivered; for I will
contend with him that contendeth with thee, and I will save thy
children.

21:26 And I will feed them that oppress thee with their own flesh; they
shall be drunken with their own blood as with sweet wine; and all flesh
shall know that I, the Lord, am thy Savior and thy Redeemer, the Mighty
One of Jacob.

1 Nephi Chapter 22

22:1 And now it came to pass that after I, Nephi, had read these things
which were engraven upon the plates of brass, my brethren came unto me
and said unto me: What meaneth these things which ye have read? Behold,
are they to be understood according to things which are spiritual,
which shall come to pass according to the spirit and not the flesh?

22:2 And I, Nephi, said unto them: Behold they were manifest unto the
prophet by the voice of the Spirit; for by the Spirit are all things
made known unto the prophets, which shall come upon the children of men
according to the flesh.

22:3 Wherefore, the things of which I have read are things pertaining
to things both temporal and spiritual; for it appears that the house of
Israel, sooner or later, will be scattered upon all the face of the
earth, and also among all nations.

22:4 And behold, there are many who are already lost from the knowledge
of those who are at Jerusalem. Yea, the more part of all the tribes
have been led away; and they are scattered to and fro upon the isles of
the sea; and whither they are none of us knoweth, save that we know
that they have been led away.

22:5 And since they have been led away, these things have been
prophesied concerning them, and also concerning all those who shall
hereafter be scattered and be confounded, because of the Holy One of
Israel; for against him will they harden their hearts; wherefore, they
shall be scattered among all nations and shall be hated of all men.

22:6 Nevertheless, after they shall be nursed by the Gentiles, and the
Lord has lifted up his hand upon the Gentiles and set them up for a
standard, and their children have been carried in their arms, and their
daughters have been carried upon their shoulders, behold these things
of which are spoken are temporal; for thus are the covenants of the
Lord with our fathers; and it meaneth us in the days to come, and also
all our brethren who are of the house of Israel.

22:7 And it meaneth that the time cometh that after all the house of
Israel have been scattered and confounded, that the Lord God will raise
up a mighty nation among the Gentiles, yea, even upon the face of this
land; and by them shall our seed be scattered.

22:8 And after our seed is scattered the Lord God will proceed to do a
marvelous work among the Gentiles, which shall be of great worth unto
our seed; wherefore, it is likened unto their being nourished by the
Gentiles and being carried in their arms and upon their shoulders.

22:9 And it shall also be of worth unto the Gentiles; and not only unto
the Gentiles but unto all the house of Israel, unto the making known of
the covenants of the Father of heaven unto Abraham, saying: In thy seed
shall all the kindreds of the earth be blessed.

22:10 And I would, my brethren, that ye should know that all the
kindreds of the earth cannot be blessed unless he shall make bare his
arm in the eyes of the nations.

22:11 Wherefore, the Lord God will proceed to make bare his arm in the
eyes of all the nations, in bringing about his covenants and his gospel
unto those who are of the house of Israel.

22:12 Wherefore, he will bring them again out of captivity, and they
shall be gathered together to the lands of their inheritance; and they
shall be brought out of obscurity and out of darkness; and they shall
know that the Lord is their Savior and their Redeemer, the Mighty One
of Israel.

22:13 And the blood of that great and abominable church, which is the
whore of all the earth, shall turn upon their own heads; for they shall
war among themselves, and the sword of their own hands shall fall upon
their own heads, and they shall be drunken with their own blood.

22:14 And every nation which shall war against thee, O house of Israel,
shall be turned one against another, and they shall fall into the pit
which they digged to ensnare the people of the Lord. And all that fight
against Zion shall be destroyed, and that great whore, who hath
perverted the right ways of the Lord, yea, that great and abominable
church, shall tumble to the dust and great shall be the fall of it.

22:15 For behold, saith the prophet, the time cometh speedily that
Satan shall have no more power over the hearts of the children of men;
for the day soon cometh that all the proud and they who do wickedly
shall be as stubble; and the day cometh that they must be burned.

22:16 For the time soon cometh that the fulness of the wrath of God
shall be poured out upon all the children of men; for he will not
suffer that the wicked shall destroy the righteous.

22:17 Wherefore, he will preserve the righteous by his power, even if
it so be that the fulness of his wrath must come, and the righteous be
preserved, even unto the destruction of their enemies by fire.
Wherefore, the righteous need not fear; for thus saith the prophet,
they shall be saved, even if it so be as by fire.

22:18 Behold, my brethren, I say unto you, that these things must
shortly come; yea, even blood, and fire, and vapor of smoke must come;
and it must needs be upon the face of this earth; and it cometh unto
men according to the flesh if it so be that they will harden their
hearts against the Holy One of Israel.

22:19 For behold, the righteous shall not perish; for the time surely
must come that all they who fight against Zion shall be cut off.

22:20 And the Lord will surely prepare a way for his people, unto the
fulfilling of the words of Moses, which he spake, saying: A prophet
shall the Lord your God raise up unto you, like unto me; him shall ye
hear in all things whatsoever he shall say unto you. And it shall come
to pass that all those who will not hear that prophet shall be cut off
from among the people.

22:21 And now I, Nephi, declare unto you, that this prophet of whom
Moses spake was the Holy One of Israel; wherefore, he shall execute
judgment in righteousness.

22:22 And the righteous need not fear, for they are those who shall not
be confounded. But it is the kingdom of the devil, which shall be built
up among the children of men, which kingdom is established among them
which are in the flesh—

22:23 For the time speedily shall come that all churches which are
built up to get gain, and all those who are built up to get power over
the flesh, and those who are built up to become popular in the eyes of
the world, and those who seek the lusts of the flesh and the things of
the world, and to do all manner of iniquity; yea, in fine, all those
who belong to the kingdom of the devil are they who need fear, and
tremble, and quake; they are those who must be brought low in the dust;
they are those who must be consumed as stubble; and this is according
to the words of the prophet.

22:24 And the time cometh speedily that the righteous must be led up as
calves of the stall, and the Holy One of Israel must reign in dominion,
and might, and power, and great glory.

22:25 And he gathereth his children from the four quarters of the
earth; and he numbereth his sheep, and they know him; and there shall
be one fold and one shepherd; and he shall feed his sheep, and in him
they shall find pasture.

22:26 And because of the righteousness of his people, Satan has no
power; wherefore, he cannot be loosed for the space of many years; for
he hath no power over the hearts of the people, for they dwell in
righteousness, and the Holy One of Israel reigneth.

22:27 And now behold, I, Nephi, say unto you that all these things must
come according to the flesh.

22:28 But, behold, all nations, kindreds, tongues, and people shall
dwell safely in the Holy One of Israel if it so be that they will
repent.

22:29 And now I, Nephi, make an end; for I durst not speak further as
yet concerning these things.

22:30 Wherefore, my brethren, I would that ye should consider that the
things which have been written upon the plates of brass are true; and
they testify that a man must be obedient to the commandments of God.

22:31 Wherefore, ye need not suppose that I and my father are the only
ones that have testified, and also taught them. Wherefore, if ye shall
be obedient to the commandments, and endure to the end, ye shall be
saved at the last day. And thus it is. Amen.




 THE SECOND BOOK OF NEPHI


An account of the death of Lehi. Nephi’s brethren rebel against him.
The Lord warns Nephi to depart into the wilderness. His journeyings in
the wilderness, and so forth.

2 Nephi Chapter 1

1:1 And now it came to pass that after I, Nephi, had made an end of
teaching my brethren, our father, Lehi, also spake many things unto
them, and rehearsed unto them, how great things the Lord had done for
them in bringing them out of the land of Jerusalem.

1:2 And he spake unto them concerning their rebellions upon the waters,
and the mercies of God in sparing their lives, that they were not
swallowed up in the sea.

1:3 And he also spake unto them concerning the land of promise, which
they had obtained—how merciful the Lord had been in warning us that we
should flee out of the land of Jerusalem.

1:4 For, behold, said he, I have seen a vision, in which I know that
Jerusalem is destroyed; and had we remained in Jerusalem we should also
have perished.

1:5 But, said he, notwithstanding our afflictions, we have obtained a
land of promise, a land which is choice above all other lands; a land
which the Lord God hath covenanted with me should be a land for the
inheritance of my seed. Yea, the Lord hath covenanted this land unto
me, and to my children forever, and also all those who should be led
out of other countries by the hand of the Lord.

1:6 Wherefore, I, Lehi, prophesy according to the workings of the
Spirit which is in me, that there shall none come into this land save
they shall be brought by the hand of the Lord.

1:7 Wherefore, this land is consecrated unto him whom he shall bring.
And if it so be that they shall serve him according to the commandments
which he hath given, it shall be a land of liberty unto them;
wherefore, they shall never be brought down into captivity; if so, it
shall be because of iniquity; for if iniquity shall abound cursed shall
be the land for their sakes, but unto the righteous it shall be blessed
forever.

1:8 And behold, it is wisdom that this land should be kept as yet from
the knowledge of other nations; for behold, many nations would overrun
the land, that there would be no place for an inheritance.

1:9 Wherefore, I, Lehi, have obtained a promise, that inasmuch as those
whom the Lord God shall bring out of the land of Jerusalem shall keep
his commandments, they shall prosper upon the face of this land; and
they shall be kept from all other nations, that they may possess this
land unto themselves. And if it so be that they shall keep his
commandments they shall be blessed upon the face of this land, and
there shall be none to molest them, nor to take away the land of their
inheritance; and they shall dwell safely forever.

1:10 But behold, when the time cometh that they shall dwindle in
unbelief, after they have received so great blessings from the hand of
the Lord—having a knowledge of the creation of the earth, and all men,
knowing the great and marvelous works of the Lord from the creation of
the world; having power given them to do all things by faith; having
all the commandments from the beginning, and having been brought by his
infinite goodness into this precious land of promise—behold, I say, if
the day shall come that they will reject the Holy One of Israel, the
true Messiah, their Redeemer and their God, behold, the judgments of
him that is just shall rest upon them.

1:11 Yea, he will bring other nations unto them, and he will give unto
them power, and he will take away from them the lands of their
possessions, and he will cause them to be scattered and smitten.

1:12 Yea, as one generation passeth to another there shall be
bloodsheds, and great visitations among them; wherefore, my sons, I
would that ye would remember; yea, I would that ye would hearken unto
my words.

1:13 O that ye would awake; awake from a deep sleep, yea, even from the
sleep of hell, and shake off the awful chains by which ye are bound,
which are the chains which bind the children of men, that they are
carried away captive down to the eternal gulf of misery and woe.

1:14 Awake! and arise from the dust, and hear the words of a trembling
parent, whose limbs ye must soon lay down in the cold and silent grave,
from whence no traveler can return; a few more days and I go the way of
all the earth.

1:15 But behold, the Lord hath redeemed my soul from hell; I have
beheld his glory, and I am encircled about eternally in the arms of his
love.

1:16 And I desire that ye should remember to observe the statutes and
the judgments of the Lord; behold, this hath been the anxiety of my
soul from the beginning.

1:17 My heart hath been weighed down with sorrow from time to time, for
I have feared, lest for the hardness of your hearts the Lord your God
should come out in the fulness of his wrath upon you, that ye be cut
off and destroyed forever;

1:18 Or, that a cursing should come upon you for the space of many
generations; and ye are visited by sword, and by famine, and are hated,
and are led according to the will and captivity of the devil.

1:19 O my sons, that these things might not come upon you, but that ye
might be a choice and a favored people of the Lord. But behold, his
will be done; for his ways are righteousness forever.

1:20 And he hath said that: Inasmuch as ye shall keep my commandments
ye shall prosper in the land; but inasmuch as ye will not keep my
commandments ye shall be cut off from my presence.

1:21 And now that my soul might have joy in you, and that my heart
might leave this world with gladness because of you, that I might not
be brought down with grief and sorrow to the grave, arise from the
dust, my sons, and be men, and be determined in one mind and in one
heart, united in all things, that ye may not come down into captivity;

1:22 That ye may not be cursed with a sore cursing; and also, that ye
may not incur the displeasure of a just God upon you, unto the
destruction, yea, the eternal destruction of both soul and body.

1:23 Awake, my sons; put on the armor of righteousness. Shake off the
chains with which ye are bound, and come forth out of obscurity, and
arise from the dust.

1:24 Rebel no more against your brother, whose views have been
glorious, and who hath kept the commandments from the time that we left
Jerusalem; and who hath been an instrument in the hands of God, in
bringing us forth into the land of promise; for were it not for him, we
must have perished with hunger in the wilderness; nevertheless, ye
sought to take away his life; yea, and he hath suffered much sorrow
because of you.

1:25 And I exceedingly fear and tremble because of you, lest he shall
suffer again; for behold, ye have accused him that he sought power and
authority over you; but I know that he hath not sought for power nor
authority over you, but he hath sought the glory of God, and your own
eternal welfare.

1:26 And ye have murmured because he hath been plain unto you. Ye say
that he hath used sharpness; ye say that he hath been angry with you;
but behold, his sharpness was the sharpness of the power of the word of
God, which was in him; and that which ye call anger was the truth,
according to that which is in God, which he could not restrain,
manifesting boldly concerning your iniquities.

1:27 And it must needs be that the power of God must be with him, even
unto his commanding you that ye must obey. But behold, it was not he,
but it was the Spirit of the Lord which was in him, which opened his
mouth to utterance that he could not shut it.

1:28 And now my son, Laman, and also Lemuel and Sam, and also my sons
who are the sons of Ishmael, behold, if ye will hearken unto the voice
of Nephi ye shall not perish. And if ye will hearken unto him I leave
unto you a blessing, yea, even my first blessing.

1:29 But if ye will not hearken unto him I take away my first blessing,
yea, even my blessing, and it shall rest upon him.

1:30 And now Zoram, I speak unto you: Behold, thou art the servant of
Laban; nevertheless, thou hast been brought out of the land of
Jerusalem, and I know that thou art a true friend unto my son, Nephi,
forever.

1:31 Wherefore, because thou hast been faithful thy seed shall be
blessed with his seed, that they dwell in prosperity long upon the face
of this land; and nothing, save it shall be iniquity among them, shall
harm or disturb their prosperity upon the face of this land forever.

1:32 Wherefore, if ye shall keep the commandments of the Lord, the Lord
hath consecrated this land for the security of thy seed with the seed
of my son.

2 Nephi Chapter 2

2:1 And now, Jacob, I speak unto you: Thou art my first-born in the
days of my tribulation in the wilderness. And behold, in thy childhood
thou hast suffered afflictions and much sorrow, because of the rudeness
of thy brethren.

2:2 Nevertheless, Jacob, my first-born in the wilderness, thou knowest
the greatness of God; and he shall consecrate thine afflictions for thy
gain.

2:3 Wherefore, thy soul shall be blessed, and thou shalt dwell safely
with thy brother, Nephi; and thy days shall be spent in the service of
thy God. Wherefore, I know that thou art redeemed, because of the
righteousness of thy Redeemer; for thou hast beheld that in the fulness
of time he cometh to bring salvation unto men.

2:4 And thou hast beheld in thy youth his glory; wherefore, thou art
blessed even as they unto whom he shall minister in the flesh; for the
Spirit is the same, yesterday, today, and forever. And the way is
prepared from the fall of man, and salvation is free.

2:5 And men are instructed sufficiently that they know good from evil.
And the law is given unto men. And by the law no flesh is justified;
or, by the law men are cut off. Yea, by the temporal law they were cut
off; and also, by the spiritual law they perish from that which is
good, and become miserable forever.

2:6 Wherefore, redemption cometh in and through the Holy Messiah; for
he is full of grace and truth.

2:7 Behold, he offereth himself a sacrifice for sin, to answer the ends
of the law, unto all those who have a broken heart and a contrite
spirit; and unto none else can the ends of the law be answered.

2:8 Wherefore, how great the importance to make these things known unto
the inhabitants of the earth, that they may know that there is no flesh
that can dwell in the presence of God, save it be through the merits,
and mercy, and grace of the Holy Messiah, who layeth down his life
according to the flesh, and taketh it again by the power of the Spirit,
that he may bring to pass the resurrection of the dead, being the first
that should rise.

2:9 Wherefore, he is the first-fruits unto God, inasmuch as he shall
make intercession for all the children of men; and they that believe in
him shall be saved.

2:10 And because of the intercession for all, all men come unto God;
wherefore, they stand in the presence of him to be judged of him
according to the truth and holiness which is in him. Wherefore, the
ends of the law which the Holy One hath given, unto the inflicting of
the punishment which is affixed, which punishment that is affixed is in
opposition to that of the happiness which is affixed, to answer the
ends of the atonement—

2:11 For it must needs be, that there is an opposition in all things.
If not so, my first-born in the wilderness, righteousness could not be
brought to pass, neither wickedness, neither holiness nor misery,
neither good nor bad. Wherefore, all things must needs be a compound in
one; wherefore, if it should be one body it must needs remain as dead,
having no life neither death, nor corruption nor incorruption,
happiness nor misery, neither sense nor insensibility.

2:12 Wherefore, it must needs have been created for a thing of naught;
wherefore there would have been no purpose in the end of its creation.
Wherefore, this thing must needs destroy the wisdom of God and his
eternal purposes, and also the power, and the mercy, and the justice of
God.

2:13 And if ye shall say there is no law, ye shall also say there is no
sin. If ye shall say there is no sin, ye shall also say there is no
righteousness. And if there be no righteousness there be no happiness.
And if there be no righteousness nor happiness there be no punishment
nor misery. And if these things are not there is no God. And if there
is no God we are not, neither the earth; for there could have been no
creation of things, neither to act nor to be acted upon; wherefore, all
things must have vanished away.

2:14 And now, my sons, I speak unto you these things for your profit
and learning; for there is a God, and he hath created all things, both
the heavens and the earth, and all things that in them are, both things
to act and things to be acted upon.

2:15 And to bring about his eternal purposes in the end of man, after
he had created our first parents, and the beasts of the field and the
fowls of the air, and in fine, all things which are created, it must
needs be that there was an opposition; even the forbidden fruit in
opposition to the tree of life; the one being sweet and the other
bitter.

2:16 Wherefore, the Lord God gave unto man that he should act for
himself. Wherefore, man could not act for himself save it should be
that he was enticed by the one or the other.

2:17 And I, Lehi, according to the things which I have read, must needs
suppose that an angel of God, according to that which is written, had
fallen from heaven; wherefore, he became a devil, having sought that
which was evil before God.

2:18 And because he had fallen from heaven, and had become miserable
forever, he sought also the misery of all mankind. Wherefore, he said
unto Eve, yea, even that old serpent, who is the devil, who is the
father of all lies, wherefore he said: Partake of the forbidden fruit,
and ye shall not die, but ye shall be as God, knowing good and evil.

2:19 And after Adam and Eve had partaken of the forbidden fruit they
were driven out of the garden of Eden, to till the earth.

2:20 And they have brought forth children; yea, even the family of all
the earth.

2:21 And the days of the children of men were prolonged, according to
the will of God, that they might repent while in the flesh; wherefore,
their state became a state of probation, and their time was lengthened,
according to the commandments which the Lord God gave unto the children
of men. For he gave commandment that all men must repent; for he showed
unto all men that they were lost, because of the transgression of their
parents.

2:22 And now, behold, if Adam had not transgressed he would not have
fallen, but he would have remained in the garden of Eden. And all
things which were created must have remained in the same state in which
they were after they were created; and they must have remained forever,
and had no end.

2:23 And they would have had no children; wherefore they would have
remained in a state of innocence, having no joy, for they knew no
misery; doing no good, for they knew no sin.

2:24 But behold, all things have been done in the wisdom of him who
knoweth all things.

2:25 Adam fell that men might be; and men are, that they might have
joy.

2:26 And the Messiah cometh in the fulness of time, that he may redeem
the children of men from the fall. And because that they are redeemed
from the fall they have become free forever, knowing good from evil; to
act for themselves and not to be acted upon, save it be by the
punishment of the law at the great and last day, according to the
commandments which God hath given.

2:27 Wherefore, men are free according to the flesh; and all things are
given them which are expedient unto man. And they are free to choose
liberty and eternal life, through the great Mediator of all men, or to
choose captivity and death, according to the captivity and power of the
devil; for he seeketh that all men might be miserable like unto
himself.

2:28 And now, my sons, I would that ye should look to the great
Mediator, and hearken unto his great commandments; and be faithful unto
his words, and choose eternal life, according to the will of his Holy
Spirit;

2:29 And not choose eternal death, according to the will of the flesh
and the evil which is therein, which giveth the spirit of the devil
power to captivate, to bring you down to hell, that he may reign over
you in his own kingdom.

2:30 I have spoken these few words unto you all, my sons, in the last
days of my probation; and I have chosen the good part, according to the
words of the prophet. And I have none other object save it be the
everlasting welfare of your souls. Amen.

2 Nephi Chapter 3

3:1 And now I speak unto you, Joseph, my last-born. Thou wast born in
the wilderness of mine afflictions; yea, in the days of my greatest
sorrow did thy mother bear thee.

3:2 And may the Lord consecrate also unto thee this land, which is a
most precious land, for thine inheritance and the inheritance of thy
seed with thy brethren, for thy security forever, if it so be that ye
shall keep the commandments of the Holy One of Israel.

3:3 And now, Joseph, my last-born, whom I have brought out of the
wilderness of mine afflictions, may the Lord bless thee forever, for
thy seed shall not utterly be destroyed.

3:4 For behold, thou art the fruit of my loins; and I am a descendant
of Joseph who was carried captive into Egypt. And great were the
covenants of the Lord which he made unto Joseph.

3:5 Wherefore, Joseph truly saw our day. And he obtained a promise of
the Lord, that out of the fruit of his loins the Lord God would raise
up a righteous branch unto the house of Israel; not the Messiah, but a
branch which was to be broken off, nevertheless, to be remembered in
the covenants of the Lord that the Messiah should be made manifest unto
them in the latter days, in the spirit of power, unto the bringing of
them out of darkness unto light—yea, out of hidden darkness and out of
captivity unto freedom.

3:6 For Joseph truly testified, saying: A seer shall the Lord my God
raise up, who shall be a choice seer unto the fruit of my loins.

3:7 Yea, Joseph truly said: Thus saith the Lord unto me: A choice seer
will I raise up out of the fruit of thy loins; and he shall be esteemed
highly among the fruit of thy loins. And unto him will I give
commandment that he shall do a work for the fruit of thy loins, his
brethren, which shall be of great worth unto them, even to the bringing
of them to the knowledge of the covenants which I have made with thy
fathers.

3:8 And I will give unto him a commandment that he shall do none other
work, save the work which I shall command him. And I will make him
great in mine eyes; for he shall do my work.

3:9 And he shall be great like unto Moses, whom I have said I would
raise up unto you, to deliver my people, O house of Israel.

3:10 And Moses will I raise up, to deliver thy people out of the land
of Egypt.

3:11 But a seer will I raise up out of the fruit of thy loins; and unto
him will I give power to bring forth my word unto the seed of thy
loins—and not to the bringing forth my word only, saith the Lord, but
to the convincing them of my word, which shall have already gone forth
among them.

3:12 Wherefore, the fruit of thy loins shall write; and the fruit of
the loins of Judah shall write; and that which shall be written by the
fruit of thy loins, and also that which shall be written by the fruit
of the loins of Judah, shall grow together, unto the confounding of
false doctrines and laying down of contentions, and establishing peace
among the fruit of thy loins, and bringing them to the knowledge of
their fathers in the latter days, and also to the knowledge of my
covenants, saith the Lord.

3:13 And out of weakness he shall be made strong, in that day when my
work shall commence among all my people, unto the restoring thee, O
house of Israel, saith the Lord.

3:14 And thus prophesied Joseph, saying: Behold, that seer will the
Lord bless; and they that seek to destroy him shall be confounded; for
this promise, which I have obtained of the Lord, of the fruit of my
loins, shall be fulfilled. Behold, I am sure of the fulfilling of this
promise;

3:15 And his name shall be called after me; and it shall be after the
name of his father. And he shall be like unto me; for the thing, which
the Lord shall bring forth by his hand, by the power of the Lord shall
bring my people unto salvation.

3:16 Yea, thus prophesied Joseph: I am sure of this thing, even as I am
sure of the promise of Moses; for the Lord hath said unto me, I will
preserve thy seed forever.

3:17 And the Lord hath said: I will raise up a Moses; and I will give
power unto him in a rod; and I will give judgment unto him in writing.
Yet I will not loose his tongue, that he shall speak much, for I will
not make him mighty in speaking. But I will write unto him my law, by
the finger of mine own hand; and I will make a spokesman for him.

3:18 And the Lord said unto me also: I will raise up unto the fruit of
thy loins; and I will make for him a spokesman. And I, behold, I will
give unto him that he shall write the writing of the fruit of thy
loins, unto the fruit of thy loins; and the spokesman of thy loins
shall declare it.

3:19 And the words which he shall write shall be the words which are
expedient in my wisdom should go forth unto the fruit of thy loins. And
it shall be as if the fruit of thy loins had cried unto them from the
dust; for I know their faith.

3:20 And they shall cry from the dust; yea, even repentance unto their
brethren, even after many generations have gone by them. And it shall
come to pass that their cry shall go, even according to the simpleness
of their words.

3:21 Because of their faith their words shall proceed forth out of my
mouth unto their brethren who are the fruit of thy loins; and the
weakness of their words will I make strong in their faith, unto the
remembering of my covenant which I made unto thy fathers.

3:22 And now, behold, my son Joseph, after this manner did my father of
old prophesy.

3:23 Wherefore, because of this covenant thou art blessed; for thy seed
shall not be destroyed, for they shall hearken unto the words of the
book.

3:24 And there shall rise up one mighty among them, who shall do much
good, both in word and in deed, being an instrument in the hands of
God, with exceeding faith, to work mighty wonders, and do that thing
which is great in the sight of God, unto the bringing to pass much
restoration unto the house of Israel, and unto the seed of thy
brethren.

3:25 And now, blessed art thou, Joseph. Behold, thou art little;
wherefore hearken unto the words of thy brother, Nephi, and it shall be
done unto thee even according to the words which I have spoken.
Remember the words of thy dying father. Amen.

2 Nephi Chapter 4

4:1 And now, I, Nephi, speak concerning the prophecies of which my
father hath spoken, concerning Joseph, who was carried into Egypt.

4:2 For behold, he truly prophesied concerning all his seed. And the
prophecies which he wrote, there are not many greater. And he
prophesied concerning us, and our future generations; and they are
written upon the plates of brass.

4:3 Wherefore, after my father had made an end of speaking concerning
the prophecies of Joseph, he called the children of Laman, his sons,
and his daughters, and said unto them: Behold, my sons, and my
daughters, who are the sons and the daughters of my first-born, I would
that ye should give ear unto my words.

4:4 For the Lord God hath said that: Inasmuch as ye shall keep my
commandments ye shall prosper in the land; and inasmuch as ye will not
keep my commandments ye shall be cut off from my presence.

4:5 But behold, my sons and my daughters, I cannot go down to my grave
save I should leave a blessing upon you; for behold, I know that if ye
are brought up in the way ye should go ye will not depart from it.

4:6 Wherefore, if ye are cursed, behold, I leave my blessing upon you,
that the cursing may be taken from you and be answered upon the heads
of your parents.

4:7 Wherefore, because of my blessing the Lord God will not suffer that
ye shall perish; wherefore, he will be merciful unto you and unto your
seed forever.

4:8 And it came to pass that after my father had made an end of
speaking to the sons and daughters of Laman, he caused the sons and
daughters of Lemuel to be brought before him.

4:9 And he spake unto them, saying: Behold, my sons and my daughters,
who are the sons and the daughters of my second son; behold I leave
unto you the same blessing which I left unto the sons and daughters of
Laman; wherefore, thou shalt not utterly be destroyed; but in the end
thy seed shall be blessed.

4:10 And it came to pass that when my father had made an end of
speaking unto them, behold, he spake unto the sons of Ishmael, yea, and
even all his household.

4:11 And after he had made an end of speaking unto them, he spake unto
Sam, saying: Blessed art thou, and thy seed; for thou shall inherit the
land like unto thy brother Nephi. And thy seed shall be numbered with
his seed; and thou shalt be even like unto thy brother, and thy seed
like unto his seed; and thou shalt be blessed in all thy days.

4:12 And it came to pass after my father, Lehi, had spoken unto all his
household, according to the feelings of his heart and the Spirit of the
Lord which was in him, he waxed old. And it came to pass that he died,
and was buried.

4:13 And it came to pass that not many days after his death, Laman and
Lemuel and the sons of Ishmael were angry with me because of the
admonitions of the Lord.

4:14 For I, Nephi, was constrained to speak unto them, according to his
word; for I had spoken many things unto them, and also my father,
before his death; many of which sayings are written upon mine other
plates; for a more history part are written upon mine other plates.

4:15 And upon these I write the things of my soul, and many of the
scriptures which are engraven upon the plates of brass. For my soul
delighteth in the scriptures, and my heart pondereth them, and writeth
them for the learning and the profit of my children.

4:16 Behold, my soul delighteth in the things of the Lord; and my heart
pondereth continually upon the things which I have seen and heard.

4:17 Nevertheless, notwithstanding the great goodness of the Lord, in
showing me his great and marvelous works, my heart exclaimeth: O
wretched man that I am! Yea, my heart sorroweth because of my flesh; my
soul grieveth because of mine iniquities.

4:18 I am encompassed about, because of the temptations and the sins
which do so easily beset me.

4:19 And when I desire to rejoice, my heart groaneth because of my
sins; nevertheless, I know in whom I have trusted.

4:20 My God hath been my support; he hath led me through mine
afflictions in the wilderness; and he hath preserved me upon the waters
of the great deep.

4:21 He hath filled me with his love, even unto the consuming of my
flesh.

4:22 He hath confounded mine enemies, unto the causing of them to quake
before me.

4:23 Behold, he hath heard my cry by day, and he hath given me
knowledge by visions in the nighttime.

4:24 And by day have I waxed bold in mighty prayer before him; yea, my
voice have I sent up on high; and angels came down and ministered unto
me.

4:25 And upon the wings of his Spirit hath my body been carried away
upon exceedingly high mountains. And mine eyes have beheld great
things, yea, even too great for man; therefore I was bidden that I
should not write them.

4:26 O then, if I have seen so great things, if the Lord in his
condescension unto the children of men hath visited men in so much
mercy, why should my heart weep and my soul linger in the valley of
sorrow, and my flesh waste away, and my strength slacken, because of
mine afflictions?

4:27 And why should I yield to sin, because of my flesh? Yea, why
should I give way to temptations, that the evil one have place in my
heart to destroy my peace and afflict my soul? Why am I angry because
of mine enemy?

4:28 Awake, my soul! No longer droop in sin. Rejoice, O my heart, and
give place no more for the enemy of my soul.

4:29 Do not anger again because of mine enemies. Do not slacken my
strength because of mine afflictions.

4:30 Rejoice, O my heart, and cry unto the Lord, and say: O Lord, I
will praise thee forever; yea, my soul will rejoice in thee, my God,
and the rock of my salvation.

4:31 O Lord, wilt thou redeem my soul? Wilt thou deliver me out of the
hands of mine enemies? Wilt thou make me that I may shake at the
appearance of sin?

4:32 May the gates of hell be shut continually before me, because that
my heart is broken and my spirit is contrite! O Lord, wilt thou not
shut the gates of thy righteousness before me, that I may walk in the
path of the low valley, that I may be strict in the plain road!

4:33 O Lord, wilt thou encircle me around in the robe of thy
righteousness! O Lord, wilt thou make a way for mine escape before mine
enemies! Wilt thou make my path straight before me! Wilt thou not place
a stumbling block in my way—but that thou wouldst clear my way before
me, and hedge not up my way, but the ways of mine enemy.

4:34 O Lord, I have trusted in thee, and I will trust in thee forever.
I will not put my trust in the arm of flesh; for I know that cursed is
he that putteth his trust in the arm of flesh. Yea, cursed is he that
putteth his trust in man or maketh flesh his arm.

4:35 Yea, I know that God will give liberally to him that asketh. Yea,
my God will give me, if I ask not amiss; therefore I will lift up my
voice unto thee; yea, I will cry unto thee, my God, the rock of my
righteousness. Behold, my voice shall forever ascend up unto thee, my
rock and mine everlasting God. Amen.

2 Nephi Chapter 5

5:1 Behold, it came to pass that I, Nephi, did cry much unto the Lord
my God, because of the anger of my brethren.

5:2 But behold, their anger did increase against me, insomuch that they
did seek to take away my life.

5:3 Yea, they did murmur against me, saying: Our younger brother thinks
to rule over us; and we have had much trial because of him; wherefore,
now let us slay him, that we may not be afflicted more because of his
words. For behold, we will not have him to be our ruler; for it belongs
unto us, who are the elder brethren, to rule over this people.

5:4 Now I do not write upon these plates all the words which they
murmured against me. But it sufficeth me to say, that they did seek to
take away my life.

5:5 And it came to pass that the Lord did warn me, that I, Nephi,
should depart from them and flee into the wilderness, and all those who
would go with me.

5:6 Wherefore, it came to pass that I, Nephi, did take my family, and
also Zoram and his family, and Sam, mine elder brother and his family,
and Jacob and Joseph, my younger brethren, and also my sisters, and all
those who would go with me. And all those who would go with me were
those who believed in the warnings and the revelations of God;
wherefore, they did hearken unto my words.

5:7 And we did take our tents and whatsoever things were possible for
us, and did journey in the wilderness for the space of many days. And
after we had journeyed for the space of many days we did pitch our
tents.

5:8 And my people would that we should call the name of the place
Nephi; wherefore, we did call it Nephi.

5:9 And all those who were with me did take upon them to call
themselves the people of Nephi.

5:10 And we did observe to keep the judgments, and the statutes, and
the commandments of the Lord in all things according to the law of
Moses.

5:11 And the Lord was with us; and we did prosper exceedingly; for we
did sow seed, and we did reap again in abundance. And we began to raise
flocks, and herds, and animals of every kind.

5:12 And I, Nephi, had also brought the records which were engraven
upon the plates of brass; and also the ball, or compass, which was
prepared for my father by the hand of the Lord, according to that which
is written.

5:13 And it came to pass that we began to prosper exceedingly, and to
multiply in the land.

5:14 And I, Nephi, did take the sword of Laban, and after the manner of
it did make many swords, lest by any means the people who were now
called Lamanites should come upon us and destroy us; for I knew their
hatred towards me and my children and those who were called my people.

5:15 And I did teach my people to build buildings, and to work in all
manner of wood, and of iron, and of copper, and of brass, and of steel,
and of gold, and of silver, and of precious ores, which were in great
abundance.

5:16 And I, Nephi, did build a temple; and I did construct it after the
manner of the temple of Solomon save it were not built of so many
precious things; for they were not to be found upon the land,
wherefore, it could not be built like unto Solomon’s temple. But the
manner of the construction was like unto the temple of Solomon; and the
workmanship thereof was exceedingly fine.

5:17 And it came to pass that I, Nephi, did cause my people to be
industrious, and to labor with their hands.

5:18 And it came to pass that they would that I should be their king.
But I, Nephi, was desirous that they should have no king; nevertheless,
I did for them according to that which was in my power.

5:19 And behold, the words of the Lord had been fulfilled unto my
brethren, which he spake concerning them, that I should be their ruler
and their teacher. Wherefore, I had been their ruler and their teacher,
according to the commandments of the Lord, until the time they sought
to take away my life.

5:20 Wherefore, the word of the Lord was fulfilled which he spake unto
me, saying that: Inasmuch as they will not hearken unto thy words they
shall be cut off from the presence of the Lord. And behold, they were
cut off from his presence.

5:21 And he had caused the cursing to come upon them, yea, even a sore
cursing, because of their iniquity. For behold, they had hardened their
hearts against him, that they had become like unto a flint; wherefore,
as they were white, and exceedingly fair and delightsome, that they
might not be enticing unto my people the Lord God did cause a skin of
blackness to come upon them.

5:22 And thus saith the Lord God: I will cause that they shall be
loathsome unto thy people, save they shall repent of their iniquities.

5:23 And cursed shall be the seed of him that mixeth with their seed;
for they shall be cursed even with the same cursing. And the Lord spake
it, and it was done.

5:24 And because of their cursing which was upon them they did become
an idle people, full of mischief and subtlety, and did seek in the
wilderness for beasts of prey.

5:25 And the Lord God said unto me: They shall be a scourge unto thy
seed, to stir them up in remembrance of me; and inasmuch as they will
not remember me, and hearken unto my words, they shall scourge them
even unto destruction.

5:26 And it came to pass that I, Nephi, did consecrate Jacob and
Joseph, that they should be priests and teachers over the land of my
people.

5:27 And it came to pass that we lived after the manner of happiness.

5:28 And thirty years had passed away from the time we left Jerusalem.

5:29 And I, Nephi, had kept the records upon my plates, which I had
made, of my people thus far.

5:30 And it came to pass that the Lord God said unto me: Make other
plates; and thou shalt engraven many things upon them which are good in
my sight, for the profit of thy people.

5:31 Wherefore, I, Nephi, to be obedient to the commandments of the
Lord, went and made these plates upon which I have engraven these
things.

5:32 And I engraved that which is pleasing unto God. And if my people
are pleased with the things of God they will be pleased with mine
engravings which are upon these plates.

5:33 And if my people desire to know the more particular part of the
history of my people they must search mine other plates.

5:34 And it sufficeth me to say that forty years had passed away, and
we had already had wars and contentions with our brethren.

2 Nephi Chapter 6

6:1 The words of Jacob, the brother of Nephi, which he spake unto the
people of Nephi:

6:2 Behold, my beloved brethren, I, Jacob, having been called of God,
and ordained after the manner of his holy order, and having been
consecrated by my brother Nephi, unto whom ye look as a king or a
protector, and on whom ye depend for safety, behold ye know that I have
spoken unto you exceedingly many things.

6:3 Nevertheless, I speak unto you again; for I am desirous for the
welfare of your souls. Yea, mine anxiety is great for you; and ye
yourselves know that it ever has been. For I have exhorted you with all
diligence; and I have taught you the words of my father; and I have
spoken unto you concerning all things which are written, from the
creation of the world.

6:4 And now, behold, I would speak unto you concerning things which
are, and which are to come; wherefore, I will read you the words of
Isaiah. And they are the words which my brother has desired that I
should speak unto you. And I speak unto you for your sakes, that ye may
learn and glorify the name of your God.

6:5 And now, the words which I shall read are they which Isaiah spake
concerning all the house of Israel; wherefore, they may be likened unto
you, for ye are of the house of Israel. And there are many things which
have been spoken by Isaiah which may be likened unto you, because ye
are of the house of Israel.

6:6 And now these are the words: Thus saith the Lord God: Behold, I
will lift up mine hand to the Gentiles, and set up my standard to the
people; and they shall bring thy sons in their arms, and thy daughters
shall be carried upon their shoulders.

6:7 And kings shall be thy nursing fathers, and their queens thy
nursing mothers; they shall bow down to thee with their faces towards
the earth, and lick up the dust of thy feet; and thou shalt know that I
am the Lord; for they shall not be ashamed that wait for me.

6:8 And now I, Jacob, would speak somewhat concerning these words. For
behold, the Lord has shown me that those who were at Jerusalem, from
whence we came, have been slain and carried away captive.

6:9 Nevertheless, the Lord has shown unto me that they should return
again. And he also has shown unto me that the Lord God, the Holy One of
Israel, should manifest himself unto them in the flesh; and after he
should manifest himself they should scourge him and crucify him,
according to the words of the angel who spake it unto me.

6:10 And after they have hardened their hearts and stiffened their
necks against the Holy One of Israel, behold the judgments of the Holy
One of Israel shall come upon them. And the day cometh that they shall
be smitten and afflicted.

6:11 Wherefore, after they are driven to and fro, for thus saith the
angel, many shall be afflicted in the flesh, and shall not be suffered
to perish, because of the prayers of the faithful; they shall be
scattered, and smitten, and hated; nevertheless, the Lord will be
merciful unto them, that when they shall come to the knowledge of their
Redeemer, they shall be gathered together again to the lands of their
inheritance.

6:12 And blessed are the Gentiles, they of whom the prophet has
written; for behold, if it so be that they shall repent and fight not
against Zion, and do not unite themselves to that great and abominable
church, they shall be saved; for the Lord God will fulfil his covenants
which he has made unto his children; and for this cause the prophet has
written these things.

6:13 Wherefore, they that fight against Zion and the covenant people of
the Lord shall lick up the dust of their feet; and the people of the
Lord shall not be ashamed. For the people of the Lord are they who wait
for him; for they still wait for the coming of the Messiah.

6:14 And behold, according to the words of the prophet, the Messiah
will set himself again the second time to recover them; wherefore, he
will manifest himself unto them in power and great glory, unto the
destruction of their enemies, when that day cometh when they shall
believe in him; and none will he destroy that believe in him.

6:15 And they that believe not in him shall be destroyed, both by fire,
and by tempest, and by earthquakes, and by bloodsheds, and by
pestilence, and by famine. And they shall know that the Lord is God,
the Holy One of Israel.

6:16 For shall the prey be taken from the mighty, or the lawful captive
delivered?

6:17 But thus saith the Lord: Even the captives of the mighty shall be
taken away, and the prey of the terrible shall be delivered; for the
Mighty God shall deliver his covenant people. For thus saith the Lord:
I will contend with them that contendeth with thee—

6:18 And I will feed them that oppress thee, with their own flesh; and
they shall be drunken with their own blood as with sweet wine; and all
flesh shall know that I the Lord am thy Savior and thy Redeemer, the
Mighty One of Jacob.

2 Nephi Chapter 7

7:1 Yea, for thus saith the Lord: Have I put thee away, or have I cast
thee off forever? For thus saith the Lord: Where is the bill of your
mother’s divorcement? To whom have I put thee away, or to which of my
creditors have I sold you? Yea, to whom have I sold you? Behold, for
your iniquities have ye sold yourselves, and for your transgressions is
your mother put away.

7:2 Wherefore, when I came, there was no man; when I called, yea, there
was none to answer. O house of Israel, is my hand shortened at all that
it cannot redeem, or have I no power to deliver? Behold, at my rebuke I
dry up the sea, I make their rivers a wilderness and their fish to
stink because the waters are dried up, and they die because of thirst.

7:3 I clothe the heavens with blackness, and I make sackcloth their
covering.

7:4 The Lord God hath given me the tongue of the learned, that I should
know how to speak a word in season unto thee, O house of Israel. When
ye are weary he waketh morning by morning. He waketh mine ear to hear
as the learned.

7:5 The Lord God hath opened mine ear, and I was not rebellious,
neither turned away back.

7:6 I gave my back to the smiter, and my cheeks to them that plucked
off the hair. I hid not my face from shame and spitting.

7:7 For the Lord God will help me, therefore shall I not be confounded.
Therefore have I set my face like a flint, and I know that I shall not
be ashamed.

7:8 And the Lord is near, and he justifieth me. Who will contend with
me? Let us stand together. Who is mine adversary? Let him come near me,
and I will smite him with the strength of my mouth.

7:9 For the Lord God will help me. And all they who shall condemn me,
behold, all they shall wax old as a garment, and the moth shall eat
them up.

7:10 Who is among you that feareth the Lord, that obeyeth the voice of
his servant, that walketh in darkness and hath no light?

7:11 Behold all ye that kindle fire, that compass yourselves about with
sparks, walk in the light of your fire and in the sparks which ye have
kindled. This shall ye have of mine hand—ye shall lie down in sorrow.

2 Nephi Chapter 8

8:1 Hearken unto me, ye that follow after righteousness. Look unto the
rock from whence ye are hewn, and to the hole of the pit from whence ye
are digged.

8:2 Look unto Abraham, your father, and unto Sarah, she that bare you;
for I called him alone, and blessed him.

8:3 For the Lord shall comfort Zion, he will comfort all her waste
places; and he will make her wilderness like Eden, and her desert like
the garden of the Lord. Joy and gladness shall be found therein,
thanksgiving and the voice of melody.

8:4 Hearken unto me, my people; and give ear unto me, O my nation; for
a law shall proceed from me, and I will make my judgment to rest for a
light for the people.

8:5 My righteousness is near; my salvation is gone forth, and mine arm
shall judge the people. The isles shall wait upon me, and on mine arm
shall they trust.

8:6 Lift up your eyes to the heavens, and look upon the earth beneath;
for the heavens shall vanish away like smoke, and the earth shall wax
old like a garment; and they that dwell therein shall die in like
manner. But my salvation shall be forever, and my righteousness shall
not be abolished.

8:7 Hearken unto me, ye that know righteousness, the people in whose
heart I have written my law, fear ye not the reproach of men, neither
be ye afraid of their revilings.

8:8 For the moth shall eat them up like a garment, and the worm shall
eat them like wool. But my righteousness shall be forever, and my
salvation from generation to generation.

8:9 Awake, awake! Put on strength, O arm of the Lord; awake as in the
ancient days. Art thou not he that hath cut Rahab, and wounded the
dragon?

8:10 Art thou not he who hath dried the sea, the waters of the great
deep; that hath made the depths of the sea a way for the ransomed to
pass over?

8:11 Therefore, the redeemed of the Lord shall return, and come with
singing unto Zion; and everlasting joy and holiness shall be upon their
heads; and they shall obtain gladness and joy; sorrow and mourning
shall flee away.

8:12 I am he; yea, I am he that comforteth you. Behold, who art thou,
that thou shouldst be afraid of man, who shall die, and of the son of
man, who shall be made like unto grass?

8:13 And forgettest the Lord thy maker, that hath stretched forth the
heavens, and laid the foundations of the earth, and hast feared
continually every day, because of the fury of the oppressor, as if he
were ready to destroy? And where is the fury of the oppressor?

8:14 The captive exile hasteneth, that he may be loosed, and that he
should not die in the pit, nor that his bread should fail.

8:15 But I am the Lord thy God, whose waves roared; the Lord of Hosts
is my name.

8:16 And I have put my words in thy mouth, and have covered thee in the
shadow of mine hand, that I may plant the heavens and lay the
foundations of the earth, and say unto Zion: Behold, thou art my
people.

8:17 Awake, awake, stand up, O Jerusalem, which hast drunk at the hand
of the Lord the cup of his fury—thou hast drunken the dregs of the cup
of trembling wrung out—

8:18 And none to guide her among all the sons she hath brought forth;
neither that taketh her by the hand, of all the sons she hath brought
up.

8:19 These two sons are come unto thee, who shall be sorry for thee—thy
desolation and destruction, and the famine and the sword—and by whom
shall I comfort thee?

8:20 Thy sons have fainted, save these two; they lie at the head of all
the streets; as a wild bull in a net, they are full of the fury of the
Lord, the rebuke of thy God.

8:21 Therefore hear now this, thou afflicted, and drunken, and not with
wine:

8:22 Thus saith thy Lord, the Lord and thy God pleadeth the cause of
his people; behold, I have taken out of thine hand the cup of
trembling, the dregs of the cup of my fury; thou shalt no more drink it
again.

8:23 But I will put it into the hand of them that afflict thee; who
have said to thy soul: Bow down, that we may go over—and thou hast laid
thy body as the ground and as the street to them that went over.

8:24 Awake, awake, put on thy strength, O Zion; put on thy beautiful
garments, O Jerusalem, the holy city; for henceforth there shall no
more come into thee the uncircumcised and the unclean.

8:25 Shake thyself from the dust; arise, sit down, O Jerusalem; loose
thyself from the bands of thy neck, O captive daughter of Zion.

2 Nephi Chapter 9

9:1 And now, my beloved brethren, I have read these things that ye
might know concerning the covenants of the Lord that he has covenanted
with all the house of Israel—

9:2 That he has spoken unto the Jews, by the mouth of his holy
prophets, even from the beginning down, from generation to generation,
until the time comes that they shall be restored to the true church and
fold of God; when they shall be gathered home to the lands of their
inheritance, and shall be established in all their lands of promise.

9:3 Behold, my beloved brethren, I speak unto you these things that ye
may rejoice, and lift up your heads forever, because of the blessings
which the Lord God shall bestow upon your children.

9:4 For I know that ye have searched much, many of you, to know of
things to come; wherefore I know that ye know that our flesh must waste
away and die; nevertheless, in our bodies we shall see God.

9:5 Yea, I know that ye know that in the body he shall show himself
unto those at Jerusalem, from whence we came; for it is expedient that
it should be among them; for it behooveth the great Creator that he
suffereth himself to become subject unto man in the flesh, and die for
all men, that all men might become subject unto him.

9:6 For as death hath passed upon all men, to fulfil the merciful plan
of the great Creator, there must needs be a power of resurrection, and
the resurrection must needs come unto man by reason of the fall; and
the fall came by reason of transgression; and because man became fallen
they were cut off from the presence of the Lord.

9:7 Wherefore, it must needs be an infinite atonement—save it should be
an infinite atonement this corruption could not put on incorruption.
Wherefore, the first judgment which came upon man must needs have
remained to an endless duration. And if so, this flesh must have laid
down to rot and to crumble to its mother earth, to rise no more.

9:8 O the wisdom of God, his mercy and grace! For behold, if the flesh
should rise no more our spirits must become subject to that angel who
fell from before the presence of the Eternal God, and became the devil,
to rise no more.

9:9 And our spirits must have become like unto him, and we become
devils, angels to a devil, to be shut out from the presence of our God,
and to remain with the father of lies, in misery, like unto himself;
yea, to that being who beguiled our first parents, who transformeth
himself nigh unto an angel of light, and stirreth up the children of
men unto secret combinations of murder and all manner of secret works
of darkness.

9:10 O how great the goodness of our God, who prepareth a way for our
escape from the grasp of this awful monster; yea, that monster, death
and hell, which I call the death of the body, and also the death of the
spirit.

9:11 And because of the way of deliverance of our God, the Holy One of
Israel, this death, of which I have spoken, which is the temporal,
shall deliver up its dead; which death is the grave.

9:12 And this death of which I have spoken, which is the spiritual
death, shall deliver up its dead; which spiritual death is hell;
wherefore, death and hell must deliver up their dead, and hell must
deliver up its captive spirits, and the grave must deliver up its
captive bodies, and the bodies and the spirits of men will be restored
one to the other; and it is by the power of the resurrection of the
Holy One of Israel.

9:13 O how great the plan of our God! For on the other hand, the
paradise of God must deliver up the spirits of the righteous, and the
grave deliver up the body of the righteous; and the spirit and the body
is restored to itself again, and all men become incorruptible, and
immortal, and they are living souls, having a perfect knowledge like
unto us in the flesh, save it be that our knowledge shall be perfect.

9:14 Wherefore, we shall have a perfect knowledge of all our guilt, and
our uncleanness, and our nakedness; and the righteous shall have a
perfect knowledge of their enjoyment, and their righteousness, being
clothed with purity, yea, even with the robe of righteousness.

9:15 And it shall come to pass that when all men shall have passed from
this first death unto life, insomuch as they have become immortal, they
must appear before the judgment-seat of the Holy One of Israel; and
then cometh the judgment, and then must they be judged according to the
holy judgment of God.

9:16 And assuredly, as the Lord liveth, for the Lord God hath spoken
it, and it is his eternal word, which cannot pass away, that they who
are righteous shall be righteous still, and they who are filthy shall
be filthy still; wherefore, they who are filthy are the devil and his
angels; and they shall go away into everlasting fire; prepared for
them; and their torment is as a lake of fire and brimstone, whose flame
ascendeth up forever and ever and has no end.

9:17 O the greatness and the justice of our God! For he executeth all
his words, and they have gone forth out of his mouth, and his law must
be fulfilled.

9:18 But, behold, the righteous, the saints of the Holy One of Israel,
they who have believed in the Holy One of Israel, they who have endured
the crosses of the world, and despised the shame of it, they shall
inherit the kingdom of God, which was prepared for them from the
foundation of the world, and their joy shall be full forever.

9:19 O the greatness of the mercy of our God, the Holy One of Israel!
For he delivereth his saints from that awful monster the devil, and
death, and hell, and that lake of fire and brimstone, which is endless
torment.

9:20 O how great the holiness of our God! For he knoweth all things,
and there is not anything save he knows it.

9:21 And he cometh into the world that he may save all men if they will
hearken unto his voice; for behold, he suffereth the pains of all men,
yea, the pains of every living creature, both men, women, and children,
who belong to the family of Adam.

9:22 And he suffereth this that the resurrection might pass upon all
men, that all might stand before him at the great and judgment day.

9:23 And he commandeth all men that they must repent, and be baptized
in his name, having perfect faith in the Holy One of Israel, or they
cannot be saved in the kingdom of God.

9:24 And if they will not repent and believe in his name, and be
baptized in his name, and endure to the end, they must be damned; for
the Lord God, the Holy One of Israel, has spoken it.

9:25 Wherefore, he has given a law; and where there is no law given
there is no punishment; and where there is no punishment there is no
condemnation; and where there is no condemnation the mercies of the
Holy One of Israel have claim upon them, because of the atonement; for
they are delivered by the power of him.

9:26 For the atonement satisfieth the demands of his justice upon all
those who have not the law given to them, that they are delivered from
that awful monster, death and hell, and the devil, and the lake of fire
and brimstone, which is endless torment; and they are restored to that
God who gave them breath, which is the Holy One of Israel.

9:27 But wo unto him that has the law given, yea, that has all the
commandments of God, like unto us, and that transgresseth them, and
that wasteth the days of his probation, for awful is his state!

9:28 O that cunning plan of the evil one! O the vainness, and the
frailties, and the foolishness of men! When they are learned they think
they are wise, and they hearken not unto the counsel of God, for they
set it aside, supposing they know of themselves, wherefore, their
wisdom is foolishness and it profiteth them not. And they shall perish.

9:29 But to be learned is good if they hearken unto the counsels of
God.

9:30 But wo unto the rich, who are rich as to the things of the world.
For because they are rich they despise the poor, and they persecute the
meek, and their hearts are upon their treasures; wherefore, their
treasure is their God. And behold, their treasure shall perish with
them also.

9:31 And wo unto the deaf that will not hear; for they shall perish.

9:32 Wo unto the blind that will not see; for they shall perish also.

9:33 Wo unto the uncircumcised of heart, for a knowledge of their
iniquities shall smite them at the last day.

9:34 Wo unto the liar, for he shall be thrust down to hell.

9:35 Wo unto the murderer who deliberately killeth, for he shall die.

9:36 Wo unto them who commit whoredoms, for they shall be thrust down
to hell.

9:37 Yea, wo unto those that worship idols, for the devil of all devils
delighteth in them.

9:38 And, in fine, wo unto all those who die in their sins; for they
shall return to God, and behold his face, and remain in their sins.

9:39 O, my beloved brethren, remember the awfulness in transgressing
against that Holy God, and also the awfulness of yielding to the
enticings of that cunning one. Remember, to be carnally-minded is
death, and to be spiritually-minded is life eternal.

9:40 O, my beloved brethren, give ear to my words. Remember the
greatness of the Holy One of Israel. Do not say that I have spoken hard
things against you; for if ye do, ye will revile against the truth; for
I have spoken the words of your Maker. I know that the words of truth
are hard against all uncleanness; but the righteous fear them not, for
they love the truth and are not shaken.

9:41 O then, my beloved brethren, come unto the Lord, the Holy One.
Remember that his paths are righteous. Behold, the way for man is
narrow, but it lieth in a straight course before him, and the keeper of
the gate is the Holy One of Israel; and he employeth no servant there;
and there is none other way save it be by the gate; for he cannot be
deceived, for the Lord God is his name.

9:42 And whoso knocketh, to him will he open; and the wise, and the
learned, and they that are rich, who are puffed up because of their
learning, and their wisdom, and their riches—yea, they are they whom he
despiseth; and save they shall cast these things away, and consider
themselves fools before God, and come down in the depths of humility,
he will not open unto them.

9:43 But the things of the wise and the prudent shall be hid from them
forever—yea, that happiness which is prepared for the saints.

9:44 O, my beloved brethren, remember my words. Behold, I take off my
garments, and I shake them before you; I pray the God of my salvation
that he view me with his all-searching eye; wherefore, ye shall know at
the last day, when all men shall be judged of their works, that the God
of Israel did witness that I shook your iniquities from my soul, and
that I stand with brightness before him, and am rid of your blood.

9:45 O, my beloved brethren, turn away from your sins; shake off the
chains of him that would bind you fast; come unto that God who is the
rock of your salvation.

9:46 Prepare your souls for that glorious day when justice shall be
administered unto the righteous, even the day of judgment, that ye may
not shrink with awful fear; that ye may not remember your awful guilt
in perfectness, and be constrained to exclaim: Holy, holy are thy
judgments, O Lord God Almighty—but I know my guilt; I transgressed thy
law, and my transgressions are mine; and the devil hath obtained me,
that I am a prey to his awful misery.

9:47 But behold, my brethren, is it expedient that I should awake you
to an awful reality of these things? Would I harrow up your souls if
your minds were pure? Would I be plain unto you according to the
plainness of the truth if ye were freed from sin?

9:48 Behold, if ye were holy I would speak unto you of holiness; but as
ye are not holy, and ye look upon me as a teacher, it must needs be
expedient that I teach you the consequences of sin.

9:49 Behold, my soul abhorreth sin, and my heart delighteth in
righteousness; and I will praise the holy name of my God.

9:50 Come, my brethren, every one that thirsteth, come ye to the
waters; and he that hath no money, come buy and eat; yea, come buy wine
and milk without money and without price.

9:51 Wherefore, do not spend money for that which is of no worth, nor
your labor for that which cannot satisfy. Hearken diligently unto me,
and remember the words which I have spoken; and come unto the Holy One
of Israel, and feast upon that which perisheth not, neither can be
corrupted, and let your soul delight in fatness.

9:52 Behold, my beloved brethren, remember the words of your God; pray
unto him continually by day, and give thanks unto his holy name by
night. Let your hearts rejoice.

9:53 And behold how great the covenants of the Lord, and how great his
condescensions unto the children of men; and because of his greatness,
and his grace and mercy, he has promised unto us that our seed shall
not utterly be destroyed, according to the flesh, but that he would
preserve them; and in future generations they shall become a righteous
branch unto the house of Israel.

9:54 And now, my brethren, I would speak unto you more; but on the
morrow I will declare unto you the remainder of my words. Amen.

2 Nephi Chapter 10

10:1 And now I, Jacob, speak unto you again, my beloved brethren,
concerning this righteous branch of which I have spoken.

10:2 For behold, the promises which we have obtained are promises unto
us according to the flesh; wherefore, as it has been shown unto me that
many of our children shall perish in the flesh because of unbelief,
nevertheless, God will be merciful unto many; and our children shall be
restored, that they may come to that which will give them the true
knowledge of their Redeemer.

10:3 Wherefore, as I said unto you, it must needs be expedient that
Christ—for in the last night the angel spake unto me that this should
be his name—should come among the Jews, among those who are the more
wicked part of the world; and they shall crucify him—for thus it
behooveth our God, and there is none other nation on earth that would
crucify their God.

10:4 For should the mighty miracles be wrought among other nations they
would repent, and know that he be their God.

10:5 But because of priestcrafts and iniquities, they at Jerusalem will
stiffen their necks against him, that he be crucified.

10:6 Wherefore, because of their iniquities, destructions, famines,
pestilences, and bloodshed shall come upon them; and they who shall not
be destroyed shall be scattered among all nations.

10:7 But behold, thus saith the Lord God: When the day cometh that they
shall believe in me, that I am Christ, then have I covenanted with
their fathers that they shall be restored in the flesh, upon the earth,
unto the lands of their inheritance.

10:8 And it shall come to pass that they shall be gathered in from
their long dispersion, from the isles of the sea, and from the four
parts of the earth; and the nations of the Gentiles shall be great in
the eyes of me, saith God, in carrying them forth to the lands of their
inheritance.

10:9 Yea, the kings of the Gentiles shall be nursing fathers unto them,
and their queens shall become nursing mothers; wherefore, the promises
of the Lord are great unto the Gentiles, for he hath spoken it, and who
can dispute?

10:10 But behold, this land, said God, shall be a land of thine
inheritance, and the Gentiles shall be blessed upon the land.

10:11 And this land shall be a land of liberty unto the Gentiles, and
there shall be no kings upon the land, who shall raise up unto the
Gentiles.

10:12 And I will fortify this land against all other nations.

10:13 And he that fighteth against Zion shall perish, saith God.

10:14 For he that raiseth up a king against me shall perish, for I, the
Lord, the king of heaven, will be their king, and I will be a light
unto them forever, that hear my words.

10:15 Wherefore, for this cause, that my covenants may be fulfilled
which I have made unto the children of men, that I will do unto them
while they are in the flesh, I must needs destroy the secret works of
darkness, and of murders, and of abominations.

10:16 Wherefore, he that fighteth against Zion, both Jew and Gentile,
both bond and free, both male and female, shall perish; for they are
they who are the whore of all the earth; for they who are not for me
are against me, saith our God.

10:17 For I will fulfil my promises which I have made unto the children
of men, that I will do unto them while they are in the flesh—

10:18 Wherefore, my beloved brethren, thus saith our God: I will
afflict thy seed by the hand of the Gentiles; nevertheless, I will
soften the hearts of the Gentiles, that they shall be like unto a
father to them; wherefore, the Gentiles shall be blessed and numbered
among the house of Israel.

10:19 Wherefore, I will consecrate this land unto thy seed, and them
who shall be numbered among thy seed, forever, for the land of their
inheritance; for it is a choice land, saith God unto me, above all
other lands, wherefore I will have all men that dwell thereon that they
shall worship me, saith God.

10:20 And now, my beloved brethren, seeing that our merciful God has
given us so great knowledge concerning these things, let us remember
him, and lay aside our sins, and not hang down our heads, for we are
not cast off; nevertheless, we have been driven out of the land of our
inheritance; but we have been led to a better land, for the Lord has
made the sea our path, and we are upon an isle of the sea.

10:21 But great are the promises of the Lord unto them who are upon the
isles of the sea; wherefore as it says isles, there must needs be more
than this, and they are inhabited also by our brethren.

10:22 For behold, the Lord God has led away from time to time from the
house of Israel, according to his will and pleasure. And now behold,
the Lord remembereth all them who have been broken off, wherefore he
remembereth us also.

10:23 Therefore, cheer up your hearts, and remember that ye are free to
act for yourselves—to choose the way of everlasting death or the way of
eternal life.

10:24 Wherefore, my beloved brethren, reconcile yourselves to the will
of God, and not to the will of the devil and the flesh; and remember,
after ye are reconciled unto God, that it is only in and through the
grace of God that ye are saved.

10:25 Wherefore, may God raise you from death by the power of the
resurrection, and also from everlasting death by the power of the
atonement, that ye may be received into the eternal kingdom of God,
that ye may praise him through grace divine. Amen.

2 Nephi Chapter 11

11:1 And now, Jacob spake many more things to my people at that time;
nevertheless only these things have I caused to be written, for the
things which I have written sufficeth me.

11:2 And now I, Nephi, write more of the words of Isaiah, for my soul
delighteth in his words. For I will liken his words unto my people, and
I will send them forth unto all my children, for he verily saw my
Redeemer, even as I have seen him.

11:3 And my brother, Jacob, also has seen him as I have seen him;
wherefore, I will send their words forth unto my children to prove unto
them that my words are true. Wherefore, by the words of three, God hath
said, I will establish my word. Nevertheless, God sendeth more
witnesses, and he proveth all his words.

11:4 Behold, my soul delighteth in proving unto my people the truth of
the coming of Christ; for, for this end hath the law of Moses been
given; and all things which have been given of God from the beginning
of the world, unto man, are the typifying of him.

11:5 And also my soul delighteth in the covenants of the Lord which he
hath made to our fathers; yea, my soul delighteth in his grace, and in
his justice, and power, and mercy in the great and eternal plan of
deliverance from death.

11:6 And my soul delighteth in proving unto my people that save Christ
should come all men must perish.

11:7 For if there be no Christ there be no God; and if there be no God
we are not, for there could have been no creation. But there is a God,
and he is Christ, and he cometh in the fulness of his own time.

11:8 And now I write some of the words of Isaiah, that whoso of my
people shall see these words may lift up their hearts and rejoice for
all men. Now these are the words, and ye may liken them unto you and
unto all men.

2 Nephi Chapter 12

12:1 The word that Isaiah, the son of Amoz, saw concerning Judah and
Jerusalem:

12:2 And it shall come to pass in the last days, when the mountain of
the Lord’s house shall be established in the top of the mountains, and
shall be exalted above the hills, and all nations shall flow unto it.

12:3 And many people shall go and say, Come ye, and let us go up to the
mountain of the Lord, to the house of the God of Jacob; and he will
teach us of his ways, and we will walk in his paths; for out of Zion
shall go forth the law, and the word of the Lord from Jerusalem.

12:4 And he shall judge among the nations, and shall rebuke many
people: and they shall beat their swords into plow-shares, and their
spears into pruning-hooks—nation shall not lift up sword against
nation, neither shall they learn war any more.

12:5 O house of Jacob, come ye and let us walk in the light of the
Lord; yea, come, for ye have all gone astray, every one to his wicked
ways.

12:6 Therefore, O Lord, thou hast forsaken thy people, the house of
Jacob, because they be replenished from the east, and hearken unto
soothsayers like the Philistines, and they please themselves in the
children of strangers.

12:7 Their land also is full of silver and gold, neither is there any
end of their treasures; their land is also full of horses, neither is
there any end of their chariots.

12:8 Their land is also full of idols; they worship the work of their
own hands, that which their own fingers have made.

12:9 And the mean man boweth not down, and the great man humbleth
himself not, therefore, forgive him not.

12:10 O ye wicked ones, enter into the rock, and hide thee in the dust,
for the fear of the Lord and the glory of his majesty shall smite thee.

12:11 And it shall come to pass that the lofty looks of man shall be
humbled, and the haughtiness of men shall be bowed down, and the Lord
alone shall be exalted in that day.

12:12 For the day of the Lord of Hosts soon cometh upon all nations,
yea, upon every one; yea, upon the proud and lofty, and upon every one
who is lifted up, and he shall be brought low.

12:13 Yea, and the day of the Lord shall come upon all the cedars of
Lebanon, for they are high and lifted up; and upon all the oaks of
Bashan;

12:14 And upon all the high mountains, and upon all the hills, and upon
all the nations which are lifted up, and upon every people;

12:15 And upon every high tower, and upon every fenced wall;

12:16 And upon all the ships of the sea, and upon all the ships of
Tarshish, and upon all pleasant pictures.

12:17 And the loftiness of man shall be bowed down, and the haughtiness
of men shall be made low; and the Lord alone shall be exalted in that
day.

12:18 And the idols he shall utterly abolish.

12:19 And they shall go into the holes of the rocks, and into the caves
of the earth, for the fear of the Lord shall come upon them and the
glory of his majesty shall smite them, when he ariseth to shake
terribly the earth.

12:20 In that day a man shall cast his idols of silver, and his idols
of gold, which he hath made for himself to worship, to the moles and to
the bats;

12:21 To go into the clefts of the rocks, and into the tops of the
ragged rocks, for the fear of the Lord shall come upon them and the
majesty of his glory shall smite them, when he ariseth to shake
terribly the earth.

12:22 Cease ye from man, whose breath is in his nostrils; for wherein
is he to be accounted of?

2 Nephi Chapter 13

13:1 For behold, the Lord, the Lord of Hosts, doth take away from
Jerusalem, and from Judah, the stay and the staff, the whole staff of
bread, and the whole stay of water—

13:2 The mighty man, and the man of war, the judge, and the prophet,
and the prudent, and the ancient;

13:3 The captain of fifty, and the honorable man, and the counselor,
and the cunning artificer, and the eloquent orator.

13:4 And I will give children unto them to be their princes, and babes
shall rule over them.

13:5 And the people shall be oppressed, every one by another, and every
one by his neighbor; the child shall behave himself proudly against the
ancient, and the base against the honorable.

13:6 When a man shall take hold of his brother of the house of his
father, and shall say: Thou hast clothing, be thou our ruler, and let
not this ruin come under thy hand—

13:7 In that day shall he swear, saying: I will not be a healer; for in
my house there is neither bread nor clothing; make me not a ruler of
the people.

13:8 For Jerusalem is ruined, and Judah is fallen, because their
tongues and their doings have been against the Lord, to provoke the
eyes of his glory.

13:9 The show of their countenance doth witness against them, and doth
declare their sin to be even as Sodom, and they cannot hide it. Wo unto
their souls, for they have rewarded evil unto themselves!

13:10 Say unto the righteous that it is well with them; for they shall
eat the fruit of their doings.

13:11 Wo unto the wicked, for they shall perish; for the reward of
their hands shall be upon them!

13:12 And my people, children are their oppressors, and women rule over
them. O my people, they who lead thee cause thee to err and destroy the
way of thy paths.

13:13 The Lord standeth up to plead, and standeth to judge the people.

13:14 The Lord will enter into judgment with the ancients of his people
and the princes thereof; for ye have eaten up the vineyard and the
spoil of the poor in your houses.

13:15 What mean ye? Ye beat my people to pieces, and grind the faces of
the poor, saith the Lord God of Hosts.

13:16 Moreover, the Lord saith: Because the daughters of Zion are
haughty, and walk with stretched-forth necks and wanton eyes, walking
and mincing as they go, and making a tinkling with their feet—

13:17 Therefore the Lord will smite with a scab the crown of the head
of the daughters of Zion, and the Lord will discover their secret
parts.

13:18 In that day the Lord will take away the bravery of their tinkling
ornaments, and cauls, and round tires like the moon;

13:19 The chains and the bracelets, and the mufflers;

13:20 The bonnets, and the ornaments of the legs, and the headbands,
and the tablets, and the ear-rings;

13:21 The rings, and nose jewels;

13:22 The changeable suits of apparel, and the mantles, and the
wimples, and the crisping-pins;

13:23 The glasses, and the fine linen, and hoods, and the veils.

13:24 And it shall come to pass, instead of sweet smell there shall be
stink; and instead of a girdle, a rent; and instead of well set hair,
baldness; and instead of a stomacher, a girding of sackcloth; burning
instead of beauty.

13:25 Thy men shall fall by the sword and thy mighty in the war.

13:26 And her gates shall lament and mourn; and she shall be desolate,
and shall sit upon the ground.

2 Nephi Chapter 14

14:1 And in that day, seven women shall take hold of one man, saying:
We will eat our own bread, and wear our own apparel; only let us be
called by thy name to take away our reproach.

14:2 In that day shall the branch of the Lord be beautiful and
glorious; the fruit of the earth excellent and comely to them that are
escaped of Israel.

14:3 And it shall come to pass, they that are left in Zion and remain
in Jerusalem shall be called holy, every one that is written among the
living in Jerusalem—

14:4 When the Lord shall have washed away the filth of the daughters of
Zion, and shall have purged the blood of Jerusalem from the midst
thereof by the spirit of judgment and by the spirit of burning.

14:5 And the Lord will create upon every dwelling-place of mount Zion,
and upon her assemblies, a cloud and smoke by day and the shining of a
flaming fire by night; for upon all the glory of Zion shall be a
defence.

14:6 And there shall be a tabernacle for a shadow in the daytime from
the heat, and for a place of refuge, and a covert from storm and from
rain.

2 Nephi Chapter 15

15:1 And then will I sing to my well-beloved a song of my beloved,
touching his vineyard. My well-beloved hath a vineyard in a very
fruitful hill.

15:2 And he fenced it, and gathered out the stones thereof, and planted
it with the choicest vine, and built a tower in the midst of it, and
also made a wine-press therein; and he looked that it should bring
forth grapes, and it brought forth wild grapes.

15:3 And now, O inhabitants of Jerusalem, and men of Judah, judge, I
pray you, betwixt me and my vineyard.

15:4 What could have been done more to my vineyard that I have not done
in it? Wherefore, when I looked that it should bring forth grapes it
brought forth wild grapes.

15:5 And now go to; I will tell you what I will do to my vineyard—I
will take away the hedge thereof, and it shall be eaten up; and I will
break down the wall thereof, and it shall be trodden down;

15:6 And I will lay it waste; it shall not be pruned nor digged; but
there shall come up briers and thorns; I will also command the clouds
that they rain no rain upon it.

15:7 For the vineyard of the Lord of Hosts is the house of Israel, and
the men of Judah his pleasant plant; and he looked for judgment, and
behold, oppression; for righteousness, but behold, a cry.

15:8 Wo unto them that join house to house, till there can be no place,
that they may be placed alone in the midst of the earth!

15:9 In mine ears, said the Lord of Hosts, of a truth many houses shall
be desolate, and great and fair cities without inhabitant.

15:10 Yea, ten acres of vineyard shall yield one bath, and the seed of
a homer shall yield an ephah.

15:11 Wo unto them that rise up early in the morning, that they may
follow strong drink, that continue until night, and wine inflame them!

15:12 And the harp, and the viol, the tabret, and pipe, and wine are in
their feasts; but they regard not the work of the Lord, neither
consider the operation of his hands.

15:13 Therefore, my people are gone into captivity, because they have
no knowledge; and their honorable men are famished, and their multitude
dried up with thirst.

15:14 Therefore, hell hath enlarged herself, and opened her mouth
without measure; and their glory, and their multitude, and their pomp,
and he that rejoiceth, shall descend into it.

15:15 And the mean man shall be brought down, and the mighty man shall
be humbled, and the eyes of the lofty shall be humbled.

15:16 But the Lord of Hosts shall be exalted in judgment, and God that
is holy shall be sanctified in righteousness.

15:17 Then shall the lambs feed after their manner, and the waste
places of the fat ones shall strangers eat.

15:18 Wo unto them that draw iniquity with cords of vanity, and sin as
it were with a cart rope;

15:19 That say: Let him make speed, hasten his work, that we may see
it; and let the counsel of the Holy One of Israel draw nigh and come,
that we may know it.

15:20 Wo unto them that call evil good, and good evil, that put
darkness for light, and light for darkness, that put bitter for sweet,
and sweet for bitter!

15:21 Wo unto the wise in their own eyes and prudent in their own
sight!

15:22 Wo unto the mighty to drink wine, and men of strength to mingle
strong drink;

15:23 Who justify the wicked for reward, and take away the
righteousness of the righteous from him!

15:24 Therefore, as the fire devoureth the stubble, and the flame
consumeth the chaff, their root shall be rottenness, and their blossoms
shall go up as dust; because they have cast away the law of the Lord of
Hosts, and despised the word of the Holy One of Israel.

15:25 Therefore, is the anger of the Lord kindled against his people,
and he hath stretched forth his hand against them, and hath smitten
them; and the hills did tremble, and their carcasses were torn in the
midst of the streets. For all this his anger is not turned away, but
his hand is stretched out still.

15:26 And he will lift up an ensign to the nations from far, and will
hiss unto them from the end of the earth; and behold, they shall come
with speed swiftly; none shall be weary nor stumble among them.

15:27 None shall slumber nor sleep; neither shall the girdle of their
loins be loosed, nor the latchet of their shoes be broken;

15:28 Whose arrows shall be sharp, and all their bows bent, and their
horses’ hoofs shall be counted like flint, and their wheels like a
whirlwind, their roaring like a lion.

15:29 They shall roar like young lions; yea, they shall roar, and lay
hold of the prey, and shall carry away safe, and none shall deliver.

15:30 And in that day they shall roar against them like the roaring of
the sea; and if they look unto the land, behold, darkness and sorrow,
and the light is darkened in the heavens thereof.

2 Nephi Chapter 16

16:1 In the year that king Uzziah died, I saw also the Lord sitting
upon a throne, high and lifted up, and his train filled the temple.

16:2 Above it stood the seraphim; each one had six wings; with twain he
covered his face, and with twain he covered his feet, and with twain he
did fly.

16:3 And one cried unto another, and said: Holy, holy, holy, is the
Lord of Hosts; the whole earth is full of his glory.

16:4 And the posts of the door moved at the voice of him that cried,
and the house was filled with smoke.

16:5 Then said I: Wo is unto me! for I am undone; because I am a man of
unclean lips; and I dwell in the midst of a people of unclean lips; for
mine eyes have seen the King, the Lord of Hosts.

16:6 Then flew one of the seraphim unto me, having a live coal in his
hand, which he had taken with the tongs from off the altar;

16:7 And he laid it upon my mouth, and said: Lo, this has touched thy
lips; and thine iniquity is taken away, and thy sin purged.

16:8 Also I heard the voice of the Lord, saying: Whom shall I send, and
who will go for us? Then I said: Here am I; send me.

16:9 And he said: Go and tell this people—Hear ye indeed, but they
understood not; and see ye indeed, but they perceived not.

16:10 Make the heart of this people fat, and make their ears heavy, and
shut their eyes—lest they see with their eyes, and hear with their
ears, and understand with their heart, and be converted and be healed.

16:11 Then said I: Lord, how long? And he said: Until the cities be
wasted without inhabitant, and the houses without man, and the land be
utterly desolate;

16:12 And the Lord have removed men far away, for there shall be a
great forsaking in the midst of the land.

16:13 But yet there shall be a tenth, and they shall return, and shall
be eaten, as a teil-tree, and as an oak whose substance is in them when
they cast their leaves; so the holy seed shall be the substance
thereof.

2 Nephi Chapter 17

17:1 And it came to pass in the days of Ahaz the son of Jotham, the son
of Uzziah, king of Judah, that Rezin, king of Syria, and Pekah the son
of Remaliah, king of Israel, went up toward Jerusalem to war against
it, but could not prevail against it.

17:2 And it was told the house of David, saying: Syria is confederate
with Ephraim. And his heart was moved, and the heart of his people, as
the trees of the wood are moved with the wind.

17:3 Then said the Lord unto Isaiah: Go forth now to meet Ahaz, thou
and Shearjashub thy son, at the end of the conduit of the upper pool in
the highway of the fuller’s field;

17:4 And say unto him: Take heed, and be quiet; fear not, neither be
faint-hearted for the two tails of these smoking firebrands, for the
fierce anger of Rezin with Syria, and of the son of Remaliah.

17:5 Because Syria, Ephraim, and the son of Remaliah, have taken evil
counsel against thee, saying:

17:6 Let us go up against Judah and vex it, and let us make a breach
therein for us, and set a king in the midst of it, yea, the son of
Tabeal.

17:7 Thus saith the Lord God: It shall not stand, neither shall it come
to pass.

17:8 For the head of Syria is Damascus, and the head of Damascus,
Rezin; and within three score and five years shall Ephraim be broken
that it be not a people.

17:9 And the head of Ephraim is Samaria, and the head of Samaria is
Remaliah’s son. If ye will not believe surely ye shall not be
established.

17:10 Moreover, the Lord spake again unto Ahaz, saying:

17:11 Ask thee a sign of the Lord thy God; ask it either in the depths,
or in the heights above.

17:12 But Ahaz said: I will not ask, neither will I tempt the Lord.

17:13 And he said: Hear ye now, O house of David; is it a small thing
for you to weary men, but will ye weary my God also?

17:14 Therefore, the Lord himself shall give you a sign—Behold, a
virgin shall conceive, and shall bear a son, and shall call his name
Immanuel.

17:15 Butter and honey shall he eat, that he may know to refuse the
evil and to choose the good.

17:16 For before the child shall know to refuse the evil and choose the
good, the land that thou abhorrest shall be forsaken of both her kings.

17:17 The Lord shall bring upon thee, and upon thy people, and upon thy
father’s house, days that have not come from the day that Ephraim
departed from Judah, the king of Assyria.

17:18 And it shall come to pass in that day that the Lord shall hiss
for the fly that is in the uttermost part of Egypt, and for the bee
that is in the land of Assyria.

17:19 And they shall come, and shall rest all of them in the desolate
valleys, and in the holes of the rocks, and upon all thorns, and upon
all bushes.

17:20 In the same day shall the Lord shave with a razor that is hired,
by them beyond the river, by the king of Assyria, the head, and the
hair of the feet; and it shall also consume the beard.

17:21 And it shall come to pass in that day, a man shall nourish a
young cow and two sheep;

17:22 And it shall come to pass, for the abundance of milk they shall
give he shall eat butter; for butter and honey shall every one eat that
is left in the land.

17:23 And it shall come to pass in that day, every place shall be,
where there were a thousand vines at a thousand silverlings, which
shall be for briers and thorns.

17:24 With arrows and with bows shall men come thither, because all the
land shall become briers and thorns.

17:25 And all hills that shall be digged with the mattock, there shall
not come thither the fear of briers and thorns; but it shall be for the
sending forth of oxen, and the treading of lesser cattle.

2 Nephi Chapter 18

18:1 Moreover, the word of the Lord said unto me: Take thee a great
roll, and write in it with a man’s pen, concerning
Maher-shalal-hash-baz.

18:2 And I took unto me faithful witnesses to record, Uriah the priest,
and Zechariah the son of Jeberechiah.

18:3 And I went unto the prophetess; and she conceived and bare a son.
Then said the Lord to me: Call his name, Maher-shalal-hash-baz.

18:4 For behold, the child shall not have knowledge to cry, My father,
and my mother, before the riches of Damascus and the spoil of Samaria
shall be taken away before the king of Assyria.

18:5 The Lord spake also unto me again, saying:

18:6 Forasmuch as this people refuseth the waters of Shiloah that go
softly, and rejoice in Rezin and Remaliah’s son;

18:7 Now therefore, behold, the Lord bringeth up upon them the waters
of the river, strong and many, even the king of Assyria and all his
glory; and he shall come up over all his channels, and go over all his
banks.

18:8 And he shall pass through Judah; he shall overflow and go over, he
shall reach even to the neck; and the stretching out of his wings shall
fill the breadth of thy land, O Immanuel.

18:9 Associate yourselves, O ye people, and ye shall be broken in
pieces; and give ear all ye of far countries; gird yourselves, and ye
shall be broken in pieces; gird yourselves, and ye shall be broken in
pieces.

18:10 Take counsel together, and it shall come to naught; speak the
word, and it shall not stand; for God is with us.

18:11 For the Lord spake thus to me with a strong hand, and instructed
me that I should not walk in the way of this people, saying:

18:12 Say ye not, A confederacy, to all to whom this people shall say,
A confederacy; neither fear ye their fear, nor be afraid.

18:13 Sanctify the Lord of Hosts himself, and let him be your fear, and
let him be your dread.

18:14 And he shall be for a sanctuary; but for a stone of stumbling,
and for a rock of offense to both the houses of Israel, for a gin and a
snare to the inhabitants of Jerusalem.

18:15 And many among them shall stumble and fall, and be broken, and be
snared, and be taken.

18:16 Bind up the testimony, seal the law among my disciples.

18:17 And I will wait upon the Lord, that hideth his face from the
house of Jacob, and I will look for him.

18:18 Behold, I and the children whom the Lord hath given me are for
signs and for wonders in Israel from the Lord of Hosts, which dwelleth
in Mount Zion.

18:19 And when they shall say unto you: Seek unto them that have
familiar spirits, and unto wizards that peep and mutter—should not a
people seek unto their God for the living to hear from the dead?

18:20 To the law and to the testimony; and if they speak not according
to this word, it is because there is no light in them.

18:21 And they shall pass through it hardly bestead and hungry; and it
shall come to pass that when they shall be hungry, they shall fret
themselves, and curse their king and their God, and look upward.

18:22 And they shall look unto the earth and behold trouble, and
darkness, dimness of anguish, and shall be driven to darkness.

2 Nephi Chapter 19

19:1 Nevertheless, the dimness shall not be such as was in her
vexation, when at first he lightly afflicted the land of Zebulun, and
the land of Naphtali, and afterwards did more grievously afflict by the
way of the Red Sea beyond Jordan in Galilee of the nations.

19:2 The people that walked in darkness have seen a great light; they
that dwell in the land of the shadow of death, upon them hath the light
shined.

19:3 Thou hast multiplied the nation, and increased the joy—they joy
before thee according to the joy in harvest, and as men rejoice when
they divide the spoil.

19:4 For thou hast broken the yoke of his burden, and the staff of his
shoulder, the rod of his oppressor.

19:5 For every battle of the warrior is with confused noise, and
garments rolled in blood; but this shall be with burning and fuel of
fire.

19:6 For unto us a child is born, unto us a son is given; and the
government shall be upon his shoulder; and his name shall be called,
Wonderful, Counselor, The Mighty God, The Everlasting Father, The
Prince of Peace.

19:7 Of the increase of government and peace there is no end, upon the
throne of David, and upon his kingdom to order it, and to establish it
with judgment and with justice from henceforth, even forever. The zeal
of the Lord of Hosts will perform this.

19:8 The Lord sent his word unto Jacob and it hath lighted upon Israel.

19:9 And all the people shall know, even Ephraim and the inhabitants of
Samaria, that say in the pride and stoutness of heart:

19:10 The bricks are fallen down, but we will build with hewn stones;
the sycamores are cut down, but we will change them into cedars.

19:11 Therefore the Lord shall set up the adversaries of Rezin against
him, and join his enemies together;

19:12 The Syrians before and the Philistines behind; and they shall
devour Israel with open mouth. For all this his anger is not turned
away, but his hand is stretched out still.

19:13 For the people turneth not unto him that smiteth them, neither do
they seek the Lord of Hosts.

19:14 Therefore will the Lord cut off from Israel head and tail, branch
and rush in one day.

19:15 The ancient, he is the head; and the prophet that teacheth lies,
he is the tail.

19:16 For the leaders of this people cause them to err; and they that
are led of them are destroyed.

19:17 Therefore the Lord shall have no joy in their young men, neither
shall have mercy on their fatherless and widows; for every one of them
is a hypocrite and an evildoer, and every mouth speaketh folly. For all
this his anger is not turned away, but his hand is stretched out still.

19:18 For wickedness burneth as the fire; it shall devour the briers
and thorns, and shall kindle in the thickets of the forests, and they
shall mount up like the lifting up of smoke.

19:19 Through the wrath of the Lord of Hosts is the land darkened, and
the people shall be as the fuel of the fire; no man shall spare his
brother.

19:20 And he shall snatch on the right hand and be hungry; and he shall
eat on the left hand and they shall not be satisfied; they shall eat
every man the flesh of his own arm—

19:21 Manasseh, Ephraim; and Ephraim, Manasseh; they together shall be
against Judah. For all this his anger is not turned away, but his hand
is stretched out still.

2 Nephi Chapter 20

20:1 Wo unto them that decree unrighteous decrees, and that write
grievousness which they have prescribed;

20:2 To turn away the needy from judgment, and to take away the right
from the poor of my people, that widows may be their prey, and that
they may rob the fatherless!

20:3 And what will ye do in the day of visitation, and in the
desolation which shall come from far? to whom will ye flee for help?
and where will ye leave your glory?

20:4 Without me they shall bow down under the prisoners, and they shall
fall under the slain. For all this his anger is not turned away, but
his hand is stretched out still.

20:5 O Assyrian, the rod of mine anger, and the staff in their hand is
their indignation.

20:6 I will send him against a hypocritical nation, and against the
people of my wrath will I give him a charge to take the spoil, and to
take the prey, and to tread them down like the mire of the streets.

20:7 Howbeit he meaneth not so, neither doth his heart think so; but in
his heart it is to destroy and cut off nations not a few.

20:8 For he saith: Are not my princes altogether kings?

20:9 Is not Calno as Carchemish? Is not Hamath as Arpad? Is not Samaria
as Damascus?

20:10 As my hand hath founded the kingdoms of the idols, and whose
graven images did excel them of Jerusalem and of Samaria;

20:11 Shall I not, as I have done unto Samaria and her idols, so do to
Jerusalem and to her idols?

20:12 Wherefore it shall come to pass that when the Lord hath performed
his whole work upon Mount Zion and upon Jerusalem, I will punish the
fruit of the stout heart of the king of Assyria, and the glory of his
high looks.

20:13 For he saith: By the strength of my hand and by my wisdom I have
done these things; for I am prudent; and I have moved the borders of
the people, and have robbed their treasures, and I have put down the
inhabitants like a valiant man;

20:14 And my hand hath found as a nest the riches of the people; and as
one gathereth eggs that are left have I gathered all the earth; and
there was none that moved the wing, or opened the mouth, or peeped.

20:15 Shall the ax boast itself against him that heweth therewith?
Shall the saw magnify itself against him that shaketh it? As if the rod
should shake itself against them that lift it up, or as if the staff
should lift up itself as if it were no wood!

20:16 Therefore shall the Lord, the Lord of Hosts, send among his fat
ones, leanness; and under his glory he shall kindle a burning like the
burning of a fire.

20:17 And the light of Israel shall be for a fire, and his Holy One for
a flame, and shall burn and shall devour his thorns and his briers in
one day;

20:18 And shall consume the glory of his forest, and of his fruitful
field, both soul and body; and they shall be as when a standard-bearer
fainteth.

20:19 And the rest of the trees of his forest shall be few, that a
child may write them.

20:20 And it shall come to pass in that day, that the remnant of
Israel, and such as are escaped of the house of Jacob, shall no more
again stay upon him that smote them, but shall stay upon the Lord, the
Holy One of Israel, in truth.

20:21 The remnant shall return, yea, even the remnant of Jacob, unto
the mighty God.

20:22 For though thy people Israel be as the sand of the sea, yet a
remnant of them shall return; the consumption decreed shall overflow
with righteousness.

20:23 For the Lord God of Hosts shall make a consumption, even
determined in all the land.

20:24 Therefore, thus saith the Lord God of Hosts: O my people that
dwellest in Zion, be not afraid of the Assyrian; he shall smite thee
with a rod, and shall lift up his staff against thee, after the manner
of Egypt.

20:25 For yet a very little while, and the indignation shall cease, and
mine anger in their destruction.

20:26 And the Lord of Hosts shall stir up a scourge for him according
to the slaughter of Midian at the rock of Oreb; and as his rod was upon
the sea so shall he lift it up after the manner of Egypt.

20:27 And it shall come to pass in that day that his burden shall be
taken away from off thy shoulder, and his yoke from off thy neck, and
the yoke shall be destroyed because of the anointing.

20:28 He is come to Aiath, he is passed to Migron; at Michmash he hath
laid up his carriages.

20:29 They are gone over the passage; they have taken up their lodging
at Geba; Ramath is afraid; Gibeah of Saul is fled.

20:30 Lift up the voice, O daughter of Gallim; cause it to be heard
unto Laish, O poor Anathoth.

20:31 Madmenah is removed; the inhabitants of Gebim gather themselves
to flee.

20:32 As yet shall he remain at Nob that day; he shall shake his hand
against the mount of the daughter of Zion, the hill of Jerusalem.

20:33 Behold, the Lord, the Lord of Hosts shall lop the bough with
terror; and the high ones of stature shall be hewn down; and the
haughty shall be humbled.

20:34 And he shall cut down the thickets of the forests with iron, and
Lebanon shall fall by a mighty one.

2 Nephi Chapter 21

21:1 And there shall come forth a rod out of the stem of Jesse, and a
branch shall grow out of his roots.

21:2 And the Spirit of the Lord shall rest upon him, the spirit of
wisdom and understanding, the spirit of counsel and might, the spirit
of knowledge and of the fear of the Lord;

21:3 And shall make him of quick understanding in the fear of the Lord;
and he shall not judge after the sight of his eyes, neither reprove
after the hearing of his ears.

21:4 But with righteousness shall he judge the poor, and reprove with
equity for the meek of the earth; and he shall smite the earth with the
rod of his mouth, and with the breath of his lips shall he slay the
wicked.

21:5 And righteousness shall be the girdle of his loins, and
faithfulness the girdle of his reins.

21:6 The wolf also shall dwell with the lamb, and the leopard shall lie
down with the kid, and the calf and the young lion and fatling
together; and a little child shall lead them.

21:7 And the cow and the bear shall feed; their young ones shall lie
down together; and the lion shall eat straw like the ox.

21:8 And the suckling child shall play on the hole of the asp, and the
weaned child shall put his hand on the cockatrice’s den.

21:9 They shall not hurt nor destroy in all my holy mountain, for the
earth shall be full of the knowledge of the Lord, as the waters cover
the sea.

21:10 And in that day there shall be a root of Jesse, which shall stand
for an ensign of the people; to it shall the Gentiles seek; and his
rest shall be glorious.

21:11 And it shall come to pass in that day that the Lord shall set his
hand again the second time to recover the remnant of his people which
shall be left, from Assyria, and from Egypt, and from Pathros, and from
Cush, and from Elam, and from Shinar, and from Hamath, and from the
islands of the sea.

21:12 And he shall set up an ensign for the nations, and shall assemble
the outcasts of Israel, and gather together the dispersed of Judah from
the four corners of the earth.

21:13 The envy of Ephraim also shall depart, and the adversaries of
Judah shall be cut off; Ephraim shall not envy Judah, and Judah shall
not vex Ephraim.

21:14 But they shall fly upon the shoulders of the Philistines towards
the west; they shall spoil them of the east together; they shall lay
their hand upon Edom and Moab; and the children of Ammon shall obey
them.

21:15 And the Lord shall utterly destroy the tongue of the Egyptian
sea; and with his mighty wind he shall shake his hand over the river,
and shall smite it in the seven streams, and make men go over dry shod.

21:16 And there shall be a highway for the remnant of his people which
shall be left, from Assyria, like as it was to Israel in the day that
he came up out of the land of Egypt.

2 Nephi Chapter 22

22:1 And in that day thou shalt say: O Lord, I will praise thee; though
thou wast angry with me thine anger is turned away, and thou
comfortedst me.

22:2 Behold, God is my salvation; I will trust, and not be afraid; for
the Lord JEHOVAH is my strength and my song; he also has become my
salvation.

22:3 Therefore, with joy shall ye draw water out of the wells of
salvation.

22:4 And in that day shall ye say: Praise the Lord, call upon his name,
declare his doings among the people, make mention that his name is
exalted.

22:5 Sing unto the Lord; for he hath done excellent things; this is
known in all the earth.

22:6 Cry out and shout, thou inhabitant of Zion; for great is the Holy
One of Israel in the midst of thee.

2 Nephi Chapter 23

23:1 The burden of Babylon, which Isaiah the son of Amoz did see.

23:2 Lift ye up a banner upon the high mountain, exalt the voice unto
them, shake the hand, that they may go into the gates of the nobles.

23:3 I have commanded my sanctified ones, I have also called my mighty
ones, for mine anger is not upon them that rejoice in my highness.

23:4 The noise of the multitude in the mountains like as of a great
people, a tumultuous noise of the kingdoms of nations gathered
together, the Lord of Hosts mustereth the hosts of the battle.

23:5 They come from a far country, from the end of heaven, yea, the
Lord, and the weapons of his indignation, to destroy the whole land.

23:6 Howl ye, for the day of the Lord is at hand; it shall come as a
destruction from the Almighty.

23:7 Therefore shall all hands be faint, every man’s heart shall melt;

23:8 And they shall be afraid; pangs and sorrows shall take hold of
them; they shall be amazed one at another; their faces shall be as
flames.

23:9 Behold, the day of the Lord cometh, cruel both with wrath and
fierce anger, to lay the land desolate; and he shall destroy the
sinners thereof out of it.

23:10 For the stars of heaven and the constellations thereof shall not
give their light; the sun shall be darkened in his going forth, and the
moon shall not cause her light to shine.

23:11 And I will punish the world for evil, and the wicked for their
iniquity; I will cause the arrogancy of the proud to cease, and will
lay down the haughtiness of the terrible.

23:12 I will make a man more precious than fine gold; even a man than
the golden wedge of Ophir.

23:13 Therefore, I will shake the heavens, and the earth shall remove
out of her place, in the wrath of the Lord of Hosts, and in the day of
his fierce anger.

23:14 And it shall be as the chased roe, and as a sheep that no man
taketh up; and they shall every man turn to his own people, and flee
every one into his own land.

23:15 Every one that is proud shall be thrust through; yea, and every
one that is joined to the wicked shall fall by the sword.

23:16 Their children, also shall be dashed to pieces before their eyes;
their houses shall be spoiled and their wives ravished.

23:17 Behold, I will stir up the Medes against them, which shall not
regard silver and gold, nor shall they delight in it.

23:18 Their bows shall also dash the young men to pieces, and they
shall have no pity on the fruit of the womb; their eyes shall not spare
children.

23:19 And Babylon, the glory of kingdoms, the beauty of the Chaldees’
excellency, shall be as when God overthrew Sodom and Gomorrah.

23:20 It shall never be inhabited, neither shall it be dwelt in from
generation to generation: neither shall the Arabian pitch tent there;
neither shall the shepherds make their fold there.

23:21 But wild beasts of the desert shall lie there; and their houses
shall be full of doleful creatures; and owls shall dwell there, and
satyrs shall dance there.

23:22 And the wild beasts of the islands shall cry in their desolate
houses, and dragons in their pleasant palaces; and her time is near to
come, and her day shall not be prolonged. For I will destroy her
speedily; yea, for I will be merciful unto my people, but the wicked
shall perish.

2 Nephi Chapter 24

24:1 For the Lord will have mercy on Jacob, and will yet choose Israel,
and set them in their own land; and the strangers shall be joined with
them, and they shall cleave to the house of Jacob.

24:2 And the people shall take them and bring them to their place; yea,
from far unto the ends of the earth; and they shall return to their
lands of promise. And the house of Israel shall possess them, and the
land of the Lord shall be for servants and handmaids; and they shall
take them captives unto whom they were captives; and they shall rule
over their oppressors.

24:3 And it shall come to pass in that day that the Lord shall give
thee rest, from thy sorrow, and from thy fear, and from the hard
bondage wherein thou wast made to serve.

24:4 And it shall come to pass in that day, that thou shalt take up
this proverb against the king of Babylon, and say: How hath the
oppressor ceased, the golden city ceased!

24:5 The Lord hath broken the staff of the wicked, the scepters of the
rulers.

24:6 He who smote the people in wrath with a continual stroke, he that
ruled the nations in anger, is persecuted, and none hindereth.

24:7 The whole earth is at rest, and is quiet; they break forth into
singing.

24:8 Yea, the fir-trees rejoice at thee, and also the cedars of
Lebanon, saying: Since thou art laid down no feller is come up against
us.

24:9 Hell from beneath is moved for thee to meet thee at thy coming; it
stirreth up the dead for thee, even all the chief ones of the earth; it
hath raised up from their thrones all the kings of the nations.

24:10 All they shall speak and say unto thee: Art thou also become weak
as we? Art thou become like unto us?

24:11 Thy pomp is brought down to the grave; the noise of thy viols is
not heard; the worm is spread under thee, and the worms cover thee.

24:12 How art thou fallen from heaven, O Lucifer, son of the morning!
Art thou cut down to the ground, which did weaken the nations!

24:13 For thou hast said in thy heart: I will ascend into heaven, I
will exalt my throne above the stars of God; I will sit also upon the
mount of the congregation, in the sides of the north;

24:14 I will ascend above the heights of the clouds; I will be like the
Most High.

24:15 Yet thou shalt be brought down to hell, to the sides of the pit.

24:16 They that see thee shall narrowly look upon thee, and shall
consider thee, and shall say: Is this the man that made the earth to
tremble, that did shake kingdoms?

24:17 And made the world as a wilderness, and destroyed the cities
thereof, and opened not the house of his prisoners?

24:18 All the kings of the nations, yea, all of them, lie in glory,
every one of them in his own house.

24:19 But thou art cast out of thy grave like an abominable branch, and
the remnant of those that are slain, thrust through with a sword, that
go down to the stones of the pit; as a carcass trodden under feet.

24:20 Thou shalt not be joined with them in burial, because thou hast
destroyed thy land and slain thy people; the seed of evil-doers shall
never be renowned.

24:21 Prepare slaughter for his children for the iniquities of their
fathers, that they do not rise, nor possess the land, nor fill the face
of the world with cities.

24:22 For I will rise up against them, saith the Lord of Hosts, and cut
off from Babylon the name, and remnant, and son, and nephew, saith the
Lord.

24:23 I will also make it a possession for the bittern, and pools of
water; and I will sweep it with the besom of destruction, saith the
Lord of Hosts.

24:24 The Lord of Hosts hath sworn, saying: Surely as I have thought,
so shall it come to pass; and as I have purposed, so shall it stand—

24:25 That I will bring the Assyrian in my land, and upon my mountains
tread him under foot; then shall his yoke depart from off them, and his
burden depart from off their shoulders.

24:26 This is the purpose that is purposed upon the whole earth; and
this is the hand that is stretched out upon all nations.

24:27 For the Lord of Hosts hath purposed, and who shall disannul? And
his hand is stretched out, and who shall turn it back?

24:28 In the year that king Ahaz died was this burden.

24:29 Rejoice not thou, whole Palestina, because the rod of him that
smote thee is broken; for out of the serpent’s root shall come forth a
cockatrice, and his fruit shall be a fiery flying serpent.

24:30 And the first-born of the poor shall feed, and the needy shall
lie down in safety; and I will kill thy root with famine, and he shall
slay thy remnant.

24:31 Howl, O gate; cry, O city; thou, whole Palestina, art dissolved;
for there shall come from the north a smoke, and none shall be alone in
his appointed times.

24:32 What shall then answer the messengers of the nations? That the
Lord hath founded Zion, and the poor of his people shall trust in it.

2 Nephi Chapter 25

25:1 Now I, Nephi, do speak somewhat concerning the words which I have
written, which have been spoken by the mouth of Isaiah. For behold,
Isaiah spake many things which were hard for many of my people to
understand; for they know not concerning the manner of prophesying
among the Jews.

25:2 For I, Nephi, have not taught them many things concerning the
manner of the Jews; for their works were works of darkness, and their
doings were doings of abominations.

25:3 Wherefore, I write unto my people, unto all those that shall
receive hereafter these things which I write, that they may know the
judgments of God, that they come upon all nations, according to the
word which he hath spoken.

25:4 Wherefore, hearken, O my people, which are of the house of Israel,
and give ear unto my words; for because the words of Isaiah are not
plain unto you, nevertheless they are plain unto all those that are
filled with the spirit of prophecy. But I give unto you a prophecy,
according to the spirit which is in me; wherefore I shall prophesy
according to the plainness which hath been with me from the time that I
came out from Jerusalem with my father; for behold, my soul delighteth
in plainness unto my people, that they may learn.

25:5 Yea, and my soul delighteth in the words of Isaiah, for I came out
from Jerusalem, and mine eyes hath beheld the things of the Jews, and I
know that the Jews do understand the things of the prophets, and there
is none other people that understand the things which were spoken unto
the Jews like unto them, save it be that they are taught after the
manner of the things of the Jews.

25:6 But behold, I, Nephi, have not taught my children after the manner
of the Jews; but behold, I, of myself, have dwelt at Jerusalem,
wherefore I know concerning the regions round about; and I have made
mention unto my children concerning the judgments of God, which hath
come to pass among the Jews, unto my children, according to all that
which Isaiah hath spoken, and I do not write them.

25:7 But behold, I proceed with mine own prophecy, according to my
plainness; in the which I know that no man can err; nevertheless, in
the days that the prophecies of Isaiah shall be fulfilled men shall
know of a surety, at the times when they shall come to pass.

25:8 Wherefore, they are of worth unto the children of men, and he that
supposeth that they are not, unto them will I speak particularly, and
confine the words unto mine own people; for I know that they shall be
of great worth unto them in the last days; for in that day shall they
understand them; wherefore, for their good have I written them.

25:9 And as one generation hath been destroyed among the Jews because
of iniquity, even so have they been destroyed from generation to
generation according to their iniquities; and never hath any of them
been destroyed save it were foretold them by the prophets of the Lord.

25:10 Wherefore, it hath been told them concerning the destruction
which should come upon them, immediately after my father left
Jerusalem; nevertheless, they hardened their hearts; and according to
my prophecy they have been destroyed, save it be those which are
carried away captive into Babylon.

25:11 And now this I speak because of the spirit which is in me. And
notwithstanding they have been carried away they shall return again,
and possess the land of Jerusalem; wherefore, they shall be restored
again to the land of their inheritance.

25:12 But, behold, they shall have wars, and rumors of wars; and when
the day cometh that the Only Begotten of the Father, yea, even the
Father of heaven and of earth, shall manifest himself unto them in the
flesh, behold, they will reject him, because of their iniquities, and
the hardness of their hearts, and the stiffness of their necks.

25:13 Behold, they will crucify him; and after he is laid in a
sepulchre for the space of three days he shall rise from the dead, with
healing in his wings; and all those who shall believe on his name shall
be saved in the kingdom of God. Wherefore, my soul delighteth to
prophesy concerning him, for I have seen his day, and my heart doth
magnify his holy name.

25:14 And behold it shall come to pass that after the Messiah hath
risen from the dead, and hath manifested himself unto his people, unto
as many as will believe on his name, behold, Jerusalem shall be
destroyed again; for wo unto them that fight against God and the people
of his church.

25:15 Wherefore, the Jews shall be scattered among all nations; yea,
and also Babylon shall be destroyed; wherefore, the Jews shall be
scattered by other nations.

25:16 And after they have been scattered, and the Lord God hath
scourged them by other nations for the space of many generations, yea,
even down from generation to generation until they shall be persuaded
to believe in Christ, the Son of God, and the atonement, which is
infinite for all mankind—and when that day shall come that they shall
believe in Christ, and worship the Father in his name, with pure hearts
and clean hands, and look not forward any more for another Messiah,
then, at that time, the day will come that it must needs be expedient
that they should believe these things.

25:17 And the Lord will set his hand again the second time to restore
his people from their lost and fallen state. Wherefore, he will proceed
to do a marvelous work and a wonder among the children of men.

25:18 Wherefore, he shall bring forth his words unto them, which words
shall judge them at the last day, for they shall be given them for the
purpose of convincing them of the true Messiah, who was rejected by
them; and unto the convincing of them that they need not look forward
any more for a Messiah to come, for there should not any come, save it
should be a false Messiah which should deceive the people; for there is
save one Messiah spoken of by the prophets, and that Messiah is he who
should be rejected of the Jews.

25:19 For according to the words of the prophets, the Messiah cometh in
six hundred years from the time that my father left Jerusalem; and
according to the words of the prophets, and also the word of the angel
of God, his name shall be Jesus Christ, the Son of God.

25:20 And now, my brethren, I have spoken plainly that ye cannot err.
And as the Lord God liveth that brought Israel up out of the land of
Egypt, and gave unto Moses power that he should heal the nations after
they had been bitten by the poisonous serpents, if they would cast
their eyes unto the serpent which he did raise up before them, and also
gave him power that he should smite the rock and the water should come
forth; yea, behold I say unto you, that as these things are true, and
as the Lord God liveth, there is none other name given under heaven
save it be this Jesus Christ, of which I have spoken, whereby man can
be saved.

25:21 Wherefore, for this cause hath the Lord God promised unto me that
these things which I write shall be kept and preserved, and handed down
unto my seed, from generation to generation, that the promise may be
fulfilled unto Joseph, that his seed should never perish as long as the
earth should stand.

25:22 Wherefore, these things shall go from generation to generation as
long as the earth shall stand; and they shall go according to the will
and pleasure of God; and the nations who shall possess them shall be
judged of them according to the words which are written.

25:23 For we labor diligently to write, to persuade our children, and
also our brethren, to believe in Christ, and to be reconciled to God;
for we know that it is by grace that we are saved, after all we can do.

25:24 And, notwithstanding we believe in Christ, we keep the law of
Moses, and look forward with steadfastness unto Christ, until the law
shall be fulfilled.

25:25 For, for this end was the law given; wherefore the law hath
become dead unto us, and we are made alive in Christ because of our
faith; yet we keep the law because of the commandments.

25:26 And we talk of Christ, we rejoice in Christ, we preach of Christ,
we prophesy of Christ, and we write according to our prophecies, that
our children may know to what source they may look for a remission of
their sins.

25:27 Wherefore, we speak concerning the law that our children may know
the deadness of the law; and they, by knowing the deadness of the law,
may look forward unto that life which is in Christ, and know for what
end the law was given. And after the law is fulfilled in Christ, that
they need not harden their hearts against him when the law ought to be
done away.

25:28 And now behold, my people, ye are a stiffnecked people;
wherefore, I have spoken plainly unto you, that ye cannot
misunderstand. And the words which I have spoken shall stand as a
testimony against you; for they are sufficient to teach any man the
right way; for the right way is to believe in Christ and deny him not;
for by denying him ye also deny the prophets and the law.

25:29 And now behold, I say unto you that the right way is to believe
in Christ, and deny him not; and Christ is the Holy One of Israel;
wherefore ye must bow down before him, and worship him with all your
might, mind, and strength, and your whole soul; and if ye do this ye
shall in nowise be cast out.

25:30 And, inasmuch as it shall be expedient, ye must keep the
performances and ordinances of God until the law shall be fulfilled
which was given unto Moses.

2 Nephi Chapter 26

26:1 And after Christ shall have risen from the dead he shall show
himself unto you, my children, and my beloved brethren; and the words
which he shall speak unto you shall be the law which ye shall do.

26:2 For behold, I say unto you that I have beheld that many
generations shall pass away, and there shall be great wars and
contentions among my people.

26:3 And after the Messiah shall come there shall be signs given unto
my people of his birth, and also of his death and resurrection; and
great and terrible shall that day be unto the wicked, for they shall
perish; and they perish because they cast out the prophets, and the
saints, and stone them, and slay them; wherefore the cry of the blood
of the saints shall ascend up to God from the ground against them.

26:4 Wherefore, all those who are proud, and that do wickedly, the day
that cometh shall burn them up, saith the Lord of Hosts, for they shall
be as stubble.

26:5 And they that kill the prophets, and the saints, the depths of the
earth shall swallow them up, saith the Lord of Hosts; and mountains
shall cover them, and whirlwinds shall carry them away, and buildings
shall fall upon them and crush them to pieces and grind them to powder.

26:6 And they shall be visited with thunderings, and lightnings, and
earthquakes, and all manner of destructions, for the fire of the anger
of the Lord shall be kindled against them, and they shall be as
stubble, and the day that cometh shall consume them, saith the Lord of
Hosts.

26:7 O the pain, and the anguish of my soul for the loss of the slain
of my people! For I, Nephi, have seen it, and it well nigh consumeth me
before the presence of the Lord; but I must cry unto my God: Thy ways
are just.

26:8 But behold, the righteous that hearken unto the words of the
prophets, and destroy them not, but look forward unto Christ with
steadfastness for the signs which are given, notwithstanding all
persecution—behold, they are they which shall not perish.

26:9 But the Son of righteousness shall appear unto them; and he shall
heal them, and they shall have peace with him, until three generations
shall have passed away, and many of the fourth generation shall have
passed away in righteousness.

26:10 And when these things have passed away a speedy destruction
cometh unto my people; for, notwithstanding the pains of my soul, I
have seen it; wherefore, I know that it shall come to pass; and they
sell themselves for naught; for, for the reward of their pride and
their foolishness they shall reap destruction; for because they yield
unto the devil and choose works of darkness rather than light,
therefore they must go down to hell.

26:11 For the Spirit of the Lord will not always strive with man. And
when the Spirit ceaseth to strive with man then cometh speedy
destruction, and this grieveth my soul.

26:12 And as I spake concerning the convincing of the Jews, that Jesus
is the very Christ, it must needs be that the Gentiles be convinced
also that Jesus is the Christ, the Eternal God;

26:13 And that he manifesteth himself unto all those who believe in
him, by the power of the Holy Ghost; yea, unto every nation, kindred,
tongue, and people, working mighty miracles, signs, and wonders, among
the children of men according to their faith.

26:14 But behold, I prophesy unto you concerning the last days;
concerning the days when the Lord God shall bring these things forth
unto the children of men.

26:15 After my seed and the seed of my brethren shall have dwindled in
unbelief, and shall have been smitten by the Gentiles; yea, after the
Lord God shall have camped against them round about, and shall have
laid siege against them with a mount, and raised forts against them;
and after they shall have been brought down low in the dust, even that
they are not, yet the words of the righteous shall be written, and the
prayers of the faithful shall be heard, and all those who have dwindled
in unbelief shall not be forgotten.

26:16 For those who shall be destroyed shall speak unto them out of the
ground, and their speech shall be low out of the dust, and their voice
shall be as one that hath a familiar spirit; for the Lord God will give
unto him power, that he may whisper concerning them, even as it were
out of the ground; and their speech shall whisper out of the dust.

26:17 For thus saith the Lord God: They shall write the things which
shall be done among them, and they shall be written and sealed up in a
book, and those who have dwindled in unbelief shall not have them, for
they seek to destroy the things of God.

26:18 Wherefore, as those who have been destroyed have been destroyed
speedily; and the multitude of their terrible ones shall be as chaff
that passeth away—yea, thus saith the Lord God: It shall be at an
instant, suddenly—

26:19 And it shall come to pass, that those who have dwindled in
unbelief shall be smitten by the hand of the Gentiles.

26:20 And the Gentiles are lifted up in the pride of their eyes, and
have stumbled, because of the greatness of their stumbling block, that
they have built up many churches; nevertheless, they put down the power
and miracles of God, and preach up unto themselves their own wisdom and
their own learning, that they may get gain and grind upon the face of
the poor.

26:21 And there are many churches built up which cause envyings, and
strifes, and malice.

26:22 And there are also secret combinations, even as in times of old,
according to the combinations of the devil, for he is the founder of
all these things; yea, the founder of murder, and works of darkness;
yea, and he leadeth them by the neck with a flaxen cord, until he
bindeth them with his strong cords forever.

26:23 For behold, my beloved brethren, I say unto you that the Lord God
worketh not in darkness.

26:24 He doeth not anything save it be for the benefit of the world;
for he loveth the world, even that he layeth down his own life that he
may draw all men unto him. Wherefore, he commandeth none that they
shall not partake of his salvation.

26:25 Behold, doth he cry unto any, saying: Depart from me? Behold, I
say unto you, Nay; but he saith: Come unto me all ye ends of the earth,
buy milk and honey, without money and without price.

26:26 Behold, hath he commanded any that they should depart out of the
synagogues, or out of the houses of worship? Behold, I say unto you,
Nay.

26:27 Hath he commanded any that they should not partake of his
salvation? Behold I say unto you, Nay; but he hath given it free for
all men; and he hath commanded his people that 